<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="my-mothers-kiss" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Mother’s Kiss</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">My mother’s kiss, my mother’s kiss,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I feel its impress now;</div>
						<div class="line">As in the bright and happy days</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She pressed it on my brow.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">You say it is a fancied thing</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Within my memory fraught;</div>
						<div class="line">To me it has a sacred place—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The treasure house of thought.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Again, I feel her fingers glide</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Amid my clustering hair;</div>
						<div class="line">I see the love-light in her eyes,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When all my life was fair.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Again, I hear her gentle voice</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In warning or in love.</div>
						<div class="line">How precious was the faith that taught</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My soul of things above.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_2">2</span>The music of her voice is stilled,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Her lips are paled in death.</div>
						<div class="line">As precious pearls I’ll clasp her words</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Until my latest breath.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The world has scattered round my path</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Honor and wealth and fame;</div>
						<div class="line">But naught so precious as the thoughts</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That gather round her name.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And friends have placed upon my brow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The laurels of renown;</div>
						<div class="line">But she first taught me how to wear</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My manhood as a crown.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">My hair is silvered o’er with age,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I’m longing to depart;</div>
						<div class="line">To clasp again my mother’s hand,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And be a child at heart.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To roam with her the glory-land</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where saints and angels greet;</div>
						<div class="line">To cast our crowns with songs of love</div>
						<div class="in2 line">At our Redeemer’s feet.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="a-grain-of-sand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Grain of Sand</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you see this grain of sand</div>
						<div class="line">Lying loosely in my hand?</div>
						<div class="line">Do you know to me it brought</div>
						<div class="line">Just a simple loving thought?</div>
						<div class="line">When one gazes night by night</div>
						<div class="line">On the glorious stars of light,</div>
						<div class="line">Oh how little seems the span</div>
						<div class="line">Measured round the life of man.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! how fleeting are his years</div>
						<div class="line">With their smiles and their tears;</div>
						<div class="line">Can it be that God does care</div>
						<div class="line">For such atoms as we are?</div>
						<div class="line">Then outspake this grain of sand</div>
						<div class="line">“I was fashioned by His hand</div>
						<div class="line">In the star lit realms of space</div>
						<div class="line">I was made to have a place.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Should the ocean flood the world,</div>
						<div class="line">Were its mountains ’gainst me hurled,</div>
						<div class="line">All the force they could employ</div>
						<div class="line">Wouldn’t a single grain destroy;</div>
						<div class="line">And if I, a thing so light,</div>
						<div class="line">Have a place within His sight;</div>
						<div class="line">You are linked unto his throne</div>
						<div class="line">Cannot live nor die alone.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_4">4</span>“In the everlasting arms</div>
						<div class="line">Mid life’s dangers and alarms</div>
						<div class="line">Let calm trust your spirit fill;</div>
						<div class="line">Know He’s God, and then be still.”</div>
						<div class="line">Trustingly I raised my head</div>
						<div class="line">Hearing what the atom said;</div>
						<div class="line">Knowing man is greater far</div>
						<div class="line">Than the brightest sun or star.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-crocuses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Crocuses</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They heard the South wind sighing</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A murmur of the rain;</div>
						<div class="line">And they knew that Earth was longing</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To see them all again.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">While the snow-drops still were sleeping</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Beneath the silent sod;</div>
						<div class="line">They felt their new life pulsing</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Within the dark, cold clod.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Not a daffodil nor daisy</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had dared to raise its head;</div>
						<div class="line">Not a fair-haired dandelion</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Peeped timid from its bed;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_5">5</span>Though a tremor of the winter</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did shivering through them run;</div>
						<div class="line">Yet they lifted up their foreheads</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To greet the vernal sun.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And the sunbeams gave them welcome,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As did the morning air—</div>
						<div class="line">And scattered o’er their simple robes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Rich tints of beauty rare.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Soon a host of lovely flowers</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From vales and woodland burst;</div>
						<div class="line">But in all that fair procession</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The crocuses were first.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">First to weave for Earth a chaplet</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To crown her dear old head;</div>
						<div class="line">And to beautify the pathway</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where winter still did tread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And their loved and white haired mother</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Smiled sweetly ’neath the touch,</div>
						<div class="line">When she knew her faithful children</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Were loving her so much.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-present-age" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Present Age</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Say not the age is hard and cold—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I think it brave and grand;</div>
						<div class="line">When men of diverse sects and creeds</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Are clasping hand in hand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The Parsee from his sacred fires</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Beside the Christian kneels;</div>
						<div class="line">And clearer light to Islam’s eyes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The word of Christ reveals.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The Brahmin from his distant home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Brings thoughts of ancient lore;</div>
						<div class="line">The Buddhist breaking bonds of caste</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Divides mankind no more.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The meek-eyed sons of far Cathay</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Are welcome round the board;</div>
						<div class="line">Not greed, nor malice drives away</div>
						<div class="in2 line">These children of our Lord.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And Judah from whose trusted hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Came oracles divine;</div>
						<div class="line">Now sits with those around whose hearts</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The light of God doth shine.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_7">7</span>Japan unbars her long sealed gates</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From islands far away;</div>
						<div class="line">Her sons are lifting up their eyes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To greet the coming day.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The Indian child from forests wild</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Has learned to read and pray;</div>
						<div class="line">The tomahawk and scalping knife</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From him have passed away.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">From centuries of servile toil</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Negro finds release,</div>
						<div class="line">And builds the fanes of prayer and praise</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unto the God of Peace.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">England and Russia face to face</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With Central Asia meet;</div>
						<div class="line">And on the far Pacific coast,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Chinese and natives greet.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Crusaders once with sword and shield</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Holy Land to save;</div>
						<div class="line">From Moslem hands did strive to clutch</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The dear Redeemer’s grave.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">A battle greater, grander far</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is for the present age;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_8">8</span>A crusade for the rights of man</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To brighten history’s page.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Where labor faints and bows her head,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And want consorts with crime;</div>
						<div class="line">Or men grown faithless sadly say</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That evil is the time.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">There is the field, the vantage ground</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For every earnest heart;</div>
						<div class="line">To side with justice, truth and right</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And act a noble part.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To save from ignorance and vice</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The poorest, humblest child;</div>
						<div class="line">To make our age the fairest one</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On which the sun has smiled;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To plant the roots of coming years</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In mercy, love and truth;</div>
						<div class="line">And bid our weary, saddened earth</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Again renew her youth.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! earnest hearts! toil on in hope,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Till darkness shrinks from light;</div>
						<div class="line">To fill the earth with peace and joy,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Let youth and age unite;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_9">9</span>To stay the floods of sin and shame</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That sweep from shore to shore;</div>
						<div class="line">And furl the banners stained with blood,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Till war shall be no more.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Blame not the age, nor think it full</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of evil and unrest;</div>
						<div class="line">But say of every other age,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“This one shall be the best.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The age to brighten every path</div>
						<div class="in2 line">By sin and sorrow trod;</div>
						<div class="line">For loving hearts to usher in</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The commonwealth of God.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="dedication-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dedication Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Dedication Poem on the reception of the annex to the home for aged colored people, from the bequest of Mr. Edward T. Parker.</p>
			</header>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Outcast from her home in Syria</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In the lonely, dreary wild;</div>
						<div class="line">Heavy hearted, sorrow stricken,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Sat a mother and her child.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_10">10</span>There was not a voice to cheer her</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Not a soul to share her fate;</div>
						<div class="line">She was weary, he was fainting,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And life seemed so desolate.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Far away in sunny Egypt</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was lone Hagar’s native land;</div>
						<div class="line">Where the Nile in kingly bounty</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Scatters bread throughout the land.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">In the tents of princely Abram</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She for years had found a home;</div>
						<div class="line">Till the stern decree of Sarah</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Sent her forth the wild to roam.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Hour by hour she journeyed onward</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From the shelter of their tent,</div>
						<div class="line">Till her footsteps slowly faltered</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the water all was spent;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then she veiled her face in sorrow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Feared her child would die of thirst;</div>
						<div class="line">Till her eyes with tears so holden</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Saw a sparkling fountain burst.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! how happy was that mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">What a soothing of her pain;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_11">11</span>When she saw her child reviving,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Life rejoicing through each vein.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Does not life repeat this story,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Tell it over day by day?</div>
						<div class="line">Of the fountains of refreshment</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ever springing by our way.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Here is one by which we gather,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On this bright and happy day,</div>
						<div class="line">Just to bask beside a fountain</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Making gladder life’s highway.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Bringing unto hearts now aged</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who have borne life’s burdens long,</div>
						<div class="line">Such a gift of love and mercy</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As deserves our sweetest song.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Such a gift that even heaven</div>
						<div class="in2 line">May rejoice with us below,</div>
						<div class="line">If the pure and holy angels</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Join us in our joy and woe.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">May the memory of the giver</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In this home where age may rest,</div>
						<div class="line">Float like fragrance through the ages,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ever blessing, ever blest.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_12">12</span>When the gates of pearl are opened</div>
						<div class="in2 line">May we there this friend behold,</div>
						<div class="line">Drink with him from living fountains,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Walk with him the streets of gold.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When life’s shattered cords of music</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shall again be sweetly sung;</div>
						<div class="line">Then our hearts with life immortal,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shall be young, forever young.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="a-double-standard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Double Standard</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you blame me that I loved him?</div>
						<div class="in2 line">If when standing all alone</div>
						<div class="line">I cried for bread a careless world</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Pressed to my lips a stone.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you blame me that I loved him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That my heart beat glad and free,</div>
						<div class="line">When he told me in the sweetest tones</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He loved but only me?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Can you blame me that I did not see</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Beneath his burning kiss</div>
						<div class="line">The serpent’s wiles, nor even hear</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The deadly adder hiss?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_13">13</span>Can you blame me that my heart grew cold</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That the tempted, tempter turned;</div>
						<div class="line">When he was feted and caressed</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And I was coldly spurned?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Would you blame him, when you draw from me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Your dainty robes aside,</div>
						<div class="line">If he with gilded baits should claim</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Your fairest as his bride?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Would you blame the world if it should press</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On him a civic crown;</div>
						<div class="line">And see me struggling in the depth</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Then harshly press me down?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Crime has no sex and yet to-day</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I wear the brand of shame;</div>
						<div class="line">Whilst he amid the gay and proud</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Still bears an honored name.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Can you blame me if I’ve learned to think</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Your hate of vice a sham,</div>
						<div class="line">When you so coldly crushed me down</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And then excused the man?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Would you blame me if to-morrow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The coroner should say,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_14">14</span>A wretched girl, outcast, forlorn,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Has thrown her life away?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Yes, blame me for my downward course,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But oh! remember well,</div>
						<div class="line">Within your homes you press the hand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That led me down to hell.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I’m glad God’s ways are not our ways,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He does not see as man;</div>
						<div class="line">Within His love I know there’s room</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For those whom others ban.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I think before His great white throne,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His throne of spotless light,</div>
						<div class="line">That whited sepulchres shall wear</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The hue of endless night.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">That I who fell, and he who sinned,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shall reap as we have sown;</div>
						<div class="line">That each the burden of his loss</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Must bear and bear alone.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">No golden weights can turn the scale</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of justice in His sight;</div>
						<div class="line">And what is wrong in woman’s life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In man’s cannot be right.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="our-hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Our Hero</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Onward to her destination,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">O’er the stream the Hannah sped,</div>
						<div class="line">When a cry of consternation</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Smote and chilled our hearts with dread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Wildly leaping, madly sweeping,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All relentless in their sway,</div>
						<div class="line">Like a band of cruel demons</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Flames were closing ’round our way</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! the horror of those moments;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Flames above and waves below—</div>
						<div class="line">Oh! the agony of ages</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Crowded in one hour of woe.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Fainter grew our hearts with anguish</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In that hour with peril rife,</div>
						<div class="line">When we saw the pilot flying,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Terror-stricken, for his life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then a man uprose before us—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We had once despised his race—</div>
						<div class="line">But we saw a lofty purpose</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lighting up his darkened face.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_16">16</span>While the flames were madly roaring,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With a courage grand and high,</div>
						<div class="line">Forth he rushed unto our rescue,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Strong to suffer, brave to die.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Helplessly the boat was drifting,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Death was staring in each face,</div>
						<div class="line">When he grasped the fallen rudder,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Took the pilot’s vacant place.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Could he save us? Would he save us?</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All his hope of life give o’er?</div>
						<div class="line">Could he hold that fated vessel</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Till she reached the nearer shore?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">All our hopes and fears were centered</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Round his strong, unfaltering hand;</div>
						<div class="line">If he failed us we must perish,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Perish just in sight of land.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Breathlessly we watched and waited</div>
						<div class="in2 line">While the flames were raging fast;</div>
						<div class="line">When our anguish changed to rapture—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We were saved, yes, saved at last.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Never strains of sweetest music</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Brought to us more welcome sound</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_17">17</span>Than the grating of that steamer</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When her keel had touched the ground.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But our faithful martyr hero</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Through a fiery pathway trod,</div>
						<div class="line">Till he laid his valiant spirit</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On the bosom of his God.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Fame has never crowned a hero</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On the crimson fields of strife,</div>
						<div class="line">Grander, nobler, than that pilot</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Yielding up for us his life.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-bondman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Bondman</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Life was trembling, faintly trembling</div>
						<div class="line">On the bondman’s latest breath,</div>
						<div class="line">And he felt the chilling pressure</div>
						<div class="line">Of the cold, hard hand of Death.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He had been an Afric chieftain,</div>
						<div class="line">Worn his manhood as a crown;</div>
						<div class="line">But upon the field of battle</div>
						<div class="line">Had been fiercely stricken down.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_18">18</span>He had longed to gain his freedom,</div>
						<div class="line">Waited, watched and hoped in vain,</div>
						<div class="line">Till his life was slowly ebbing—</div>
						<div class="line">Almost broken was his chain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">By his bedside stood the master,</div>
						<div class="line">Gazing on the dying one,</div>
						<div class="line">Knowing by the dull grey shadows</div>
						<div class="line">That life’s sands were almost run.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Master,” said the dying bondman,</div>
						<div class="line">“Home and friends I soon shall see;</div>
						<div class="line">But before I reach my country,</div>
						<div class="line">Master write that I am free;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“For the spirits of my fathers</div>
						<div class="line">Would shrink back from me in pride,</div>
						<div class="line">If I told them at our greeting</div>
						<div class="line">I a slave had lived and died;—</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Give to me the precious token,</div>
						<div class="line">That my kindred dead may see—</div>
						<div class="line">Master! write it, write it quickly!</div>
						<div class="line">Master! write that I am free!”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">At his earnest plea the master</div>
						<div class="line">Wrote for him the glad release,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_19">19</span>O’er his wan and wasted features</div>
						<div class="line">Flitted one sweet smile of peace.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Eagerly he grasped the writing;</div>
						<div class="line">“I am free!” at last he said.</div>
						<div class="line">Backward fell upon the pillow,</div>
						<div class="line">He was free among the dead.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="and-a-little-child-shall-lead-them" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“A Little Child Shall Lead Them”</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Only a little scrap of blue</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Preserved with loving care,</div>
						<div class="line">But earth has not a brilliant hue</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To me more bright and fair.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Strong drink, like a raging demon,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Laid on my heart his hand,</div>
						<div class="line">When my darling joined with others</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Loyal Legion<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a> band.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But mystic angels called away</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My loved and precious child,</div>
						<div class="line">And o’er life’s dark and stormy way</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Swept waves of anguish wild.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_20">20</span>This badge of the Loyal Legion</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We placed upon her breast,</div>
						<div class="line">As she lay in her little coffin</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Taking her last sweet rest.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To wear that badge as a token</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She earnestly did crave,</div>
						<div class="line">So we laid it on her bosom</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To wear it in the grave.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Where sorrow would never reach her</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Nor harsh words smite her ear;</div>
						<div class="line">Nor her eyes in death dimmed slumber</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Would ever shed a tear.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“What means this badge?” said her father,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Whom we had tried to save;</div>
						<div class="line">Who said, when we told her story,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Don’t put it in the grave.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We took the badge from her bosom</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And laid it on a chair;</div>
						<div class="line">And men by drink deluded</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Knelt by that badge in prayer.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And vowed in that hour of sorrow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From drink they would abstain;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_21">21</span>And this little badge became the wedge</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Which broke their galling chain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And lifted the gloomy shadows</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That overspread my life,</div>
						<div class="line">And flooding my home with gladness,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Made me a happy wife.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And this is why this scrap of blue</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is precious in my sight;</div>
						<div class="line">It changed my sad and gloomy home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From darkness into light.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sparrows-fall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sparrow’s Fall</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Too frail to soar—a feeble thing—</div>
						<div class="line">It fell to earth with fluttering wing;</div>
						<div class="line">But God, who watches over all,</div>
						<div class="line">Beheld that little sparrow’s fall.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">’Twas not a bird with plumage gay,</div>
						<div class="line">Filling the air with its morning lay;</div>
						<div class="line">’Twas not an eagle bold and strong,</div>
						<div class="line">Borne on the tempest’s wing along.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_22">22</span>Only a brown and wee-some thing,</div>
						<div class="line">With drooping head and listless wing;</div>
						<div class="line">It could not drift beyond His sight</div>
						<div class="line">Who marshals the splendid stars of night.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Its dying chirp fell on His ears,</div>
						<div class="line">Who tunes the music of the spheres,</div>
						<div class="line">Who hears the hungry lion’s call,</div>
						<div class="line">And spreads a table for us all.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Its mission of song at last is done,</div>
						<div class="line">No more will it greet the rising sun;</div>
						<div class="line">That tiny bird has found a rest</div>
						<div class="line">More calm than its mother’s downy breast.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh, restless heart, learn thou to trust</div>
						<div class="line">In God, so tender, strong and just;</div>
						<div class="line">In whose love and mercy everywhere</div>
						<div class="line">His humblest children have a share.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">If in love He numbers ev’ry hair,</div>
						<div class="line">Whether the strands be dark or fair,</div>
						<div class="line">Shall we not learn to calmly rest,</div>
						<div class="line">Like children, on our Father’s breast?</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="god-bless-our-native-land" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">God Bless Our Native Land</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">God bless our native land,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Land of the newly free,</div>
						<div class="line">Oh may she ever stand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For truth and liberty.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">God bless our native land,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where sleep our kindred dead,</div>
						<div class="line">Let peace at thy command</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Above their graves be shed.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">God help our native land,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Bring surcease to her strife,</div>
						<div class="line">And shower from thy hand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A more abundant life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">God bless our native land,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Her homes and children bless,</div>
						<div class="line">Oh may she ever stand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For truth and righteousness.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="dandelions" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dandelions</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Welcome children of the Spring,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In your garbs of green and gold,</div>
						<div class="line">Lifting up your sun-crowned heads</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On the verdant plain and wold.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">As a bright and joyous troop</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From the breast of earth ye came</div>
						<div class="line">Fair and lovely are your cheeks,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With sun-kisses all aflame.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">In the dusty streets and lanes,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where the lowly children play,</div>
						<div class="line">There as gentle friends ye smile,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Making brighter life’s highway.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Dewdrops and the morning sun,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Weave your garments fair and bright,</div>
						<div class="line">And we welcome you to-day</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As the children of the light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Children of the earth and sun,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We are slow to understand</div>
						<div class="line">All the richness of the gifts</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Flowing from our Father’s hand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_25">25</span>Were our vision clearer far,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In this sin-dimmed world of ours,</div>
						<div class="line">Would we not more thankful be</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For the love that sends us flowers?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Welcome, early visitants,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With your sun-crowned golden hair,</div>
						<div class="line">With your message to our hearts</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of our Father’s loving care.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-building" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Building</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Build me a house,” said the Master,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“But not on the shifting sand,</div>
						<div class="line">Mid the wreck and roar of tempests,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A house that will firmly stand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“I will bring thee windows of agates,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And gates of carbuncles bright,</div>
						<div class="line">And thy fairest courts and portals</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shall be filled with love and light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Thou shalt build with fadeless rubies,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All fashioned around the throne,</div>
						<div class="line">A house that shall last forever,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With Christ as the cornerstone.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_26">26</span>“It shall be a royal mansion,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A fair and beautiful thing,</div>
						<div class="line">It will be the presence-chamber</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of thy Saviour, Lord and King.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Thy house shall be bound with pinions</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To mansions of rest above,</div>
						<div class="line">But grace shall forge all the fetters</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With the links and cords of love.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Thou shalt be free in this mansion</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From sorrow and pain of heart,</div>
						<div class="line">For the peace of God shall enter,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And never again depart.”</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="home-sweet-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Home, Sweet Home</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Sharers of a common country,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They had met in deadly strife;</div>
						<div class="line">Men who should have been as brothers</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Madly sought each other’s life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">In the silence of the even,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When the cannon’s lips were dumb,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_27">27</span>Thoughts of home and all its loved ones</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To the soldier’s heart would come.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">On the margin of a river,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Mid the evening’s dews and damps,</div>
						<div class="line">Could be heard the sounds of music</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Rising from two hostile camps.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">One was singing of its section</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Down in Dixie, Dixie’s land,</div>
						<div class="line">And the other of the banner</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Waved so long from strand to strand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">In the land where Dixie’s ensign</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Floated o’er the hopeful slave,</div>
						<div class="line">Rose the song that freedom’s banner,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Starry-lighted, long might wave.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">From the fields of strife and carnage,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Gentle thoughts began to roam,</div>
						<div class="line">And a tender strain of music</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Rose with words of “Home, Sweet Home.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then the hearts of strong men melted,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For amid our grief and sin</div>
						<div class="line">Still remains that “touch of nature,”</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Telling us we all are kin.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_28">28</span>In one grand but gentle chorus,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Floating to the starry dome,</div>
						<div class="line">Came the words that brought them nearer,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Words that told of “Home, Sweet Home.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">For awhile, all strife forgotten,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They were only brothers then,</div>
						<div class="line">Joining in the sweet old chorus,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Not as soldiers, but as men.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Men whose hearts would flow together,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Though apart their feet might roam,</div>
						<div class="line">Found a tie they could not sever,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In the mem’ry of each home.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Never may the steps of carnage</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shake our land from shore to shore,</div>
						<div class="line">But may mother, home and Heaven,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Be our watchwords evermore.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pure-in-heart-shall-see-god" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pure in Heart Shall See God</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They shall see Him in the crimson flush</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of morning’s early light,</div>
						<div class="line">In the drapery of sunset,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Around the couch of night.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_29">29</span>When the clouds drop down their fatness,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In late and early rain,</div>
						<div class="line">They shall see His glorious footprints</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On valley, hill and plain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They shall see Him when the cyclone</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Breathes terror through the land;</div>
						<div class="line">They shall see Him ’mid the murmurs</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of zephyrs soft and bland.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They shall see Him when the lips of health,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Breath vigor through each nerve,</div>
						<div class="line">When pestilence clasps hands with death,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His purposes to serve.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They shall see Him when the trembling earth</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is rocking to and fro;</div>
						<div class="line">They shall see Him in the order</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The seasons come and go.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They shall see Him when the storms of war</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Sweep wildly through the land;</div>
						<div class="line">When peace descends like gentle dew</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They still shall see His hand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They shall see Him in the city</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of gems and pearls of light,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_30">30</span>They shall see Him in his beauty,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And walk with Him in white.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To living founts their feet shall tend,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And Christ shall be their guide,</div>
						<div class="line">Beloved of God, their rest shall be</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In safety by His side.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="he-had-not-where-to-lay-his-head" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">He “Had Not Where to Lay His Head”</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The conies had their hiding-place,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The wily fox with stealthy tread</div>
						<div class="line">A covert found, but Christ, the Lord,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had not a place to lay his head.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The eagle had an eyrie home,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The blithesome bird its quiet rest,</div>
						<div class="line">But not the humblest spot on earth</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was by the Son of God possessed.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Princes and kings had palaces,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With grandeur could adorn each tomb,</div>
						<div class="line">For Him who came with love and life,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They had no home, they gave no room.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_31">31</span>The hands whose touch sent thrills of joy</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Through nerves unstrung and palsied frame,</div>
						<div class="line">The feet that travelled for our need,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Were nailed unto the cross of shame.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">How dare I murmur at my lot,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Or talk of sorrow, pain and loss,</div>
						<div class="line">When Christ was in a manger laid,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And died in anguish on the cross.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">That homeless one beheld beyond</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His lonely agonizing pain,</div>
						<div class="line">A love outflowing from His heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That all the wandering world would gain.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="go-work-in-my-vineyard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Go Work in My Vineyard</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Go work in my vineyard, said the Lord,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And gather the bruised grain;</div>
						<div class="line">But the reapers had left the stubble bare,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And I trod the soil in pain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_32">32</span>The fields of my Lord are wide and broad,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He has pastures fair and green,</div>
						<div class="line">And vineyards that drink the golden light</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Which flows from the sun’s bright sheen.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I heard the joy of the reapers’ song,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As they gathered golden grain;</div>
						<div class="line">Then wearily turned unto my task,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With a lonely sense of pain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Sadly I turned from the sun’s fierce glare,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And sought the quiet shade,</div>
						<div class="line">And over my dim and weary eyes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Sleep’s peaceful fingers strayed.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I dreamed I joined with a restless throng,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Eager for pleasure and gain;</div>
						<div class="line">But ever and anon a stumbler fell,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And uttered a cry of pain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But the eager crowd still hurried on,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Too busy to pause or heed,</div>
						<div class="line">When a voice rang sadly through my soul,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">You must staunch these wounds that bleed.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">My hands were weak, but I reached them out</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To feebler ones than mine,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_33">33</span>And over the shadows of my life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Stole the light of a peace divine.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! then my task was a sacred thing,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">How precious it grew in my eyes!</div>
						<div class="line">’Twas mine to gather the bruised grain</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For the “Lord of Paradise.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And when the reapers shall lay their grain</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On the floors of golden light,</div>
						<div class="line">I feel that mine with its broken sheaves</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shall be precious in His sight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Though thorns may often pierce my feet,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the shadows still abide,</div>
						<div class="line">The mists will vanish before His smile,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">There will be light at eventide.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="renewal-of-strength" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Renewal of Strength</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The prison-house in which I live</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is falling to decay,</div>
						<div class="line">But God renews my spirit’s strength,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Within these walls of clay.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_34">34</span>For me a dimness slowly creeps</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Around earth’s fairest light,</div>
						<div class="line">But heaven grows clearer to my view,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And fairer to my sight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It may be earth’s sweet harmonies</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Are duller to my ear,</div>
						<div class="line">But music from my Father’s house</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Begins to float more near.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then let the pillars of my home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Crumble and fall away;</div>
						<div class="line">Lo, God’s dear love within my soul</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Renews it day by day.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="jamies-puzzle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jamie’s Puzzle</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">There was grief within our household</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Because of a vacant chair.</div>
						<div class="line">Our mother, so loved and precious,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">No longer was sitting there.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_35">35</span>Our hearts grew heavy with sorrow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Our eyes with tears were blind,</div>
						<div class="line">And little Jamie was wondering,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Why we were left behind.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We had told our little darling,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of the land of love and light,</div>
						<div class="line">Of the saints all crowned with glory,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And enrobed in spotless white.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We said that our precious mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had gone to that land so fair,</div>
						<div class="line">To dwell with beautiful angels,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And to be forever there.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But the child was sorely puzzled,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Why dear grandmamma should go</div>
						<div class="line">To dwell in a stranger city,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When her children loved her so.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But again the mystic angel</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Came with swift and silent tread,</div>
						<div class="line">And our sister, Jamie’s mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was enrolled among the dead.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To us the mystery deepened,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To Jamie it seemed more clear;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_36">36</span>Grandma, he said, must be lonesome,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And mamma has gone to her.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But the question lies unanswered</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In our little Jamie’s mind,</div>
						<div class="line">Why she should go to our mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And leave her children behind;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To dwell in that lovely city,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From all that was dear to part,</div>
						<div class="line">From children who loved to nestle</div>
						<div class="in2 line">So closely around her heart.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Dear child, like you, we are puzzled,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With problems that still remain;</div>
						<div class="line">But think in the great hereafter</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Their meaning will all be plain.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-martyr-of-alabama" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Martyr of Alabama</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>The following news item appeared in the newspapers throughout the country, issue of December 27th, 1894:</p>
					<p>“Tim Thompson, a little negro boy, was asked to dance for the amusement of some white toughs. He refused, saying he was a church member. One of the men knocked him down with a club and then danced upon his prostrate form. He then shot the boy in the hip. The boy is dead: his murderer is still at large.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He lifted up his pleading eyes,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And scanned each cruel face,</div>
						<div class="line">Where cold and brutal cowardice</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had left its evil trace.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It was when tender memories</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Round Beth’lem’s manger lay,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_50">50</span>And mothers told their little ones</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of Jesu’s natal day.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And of the Magi from the East</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who came their gifts to bring,</div>
						<div class="line">And bow in rev’rence at the feet</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of Salem’s new-born King.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And how the herald angels sang</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The choral song of peace,</div>
						<div class="line">That war should close his wrathful lips,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And strife and carnage cease.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">At such an hour men well may hush</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Their discord and their strife,</div>
						<div class="line">And o’er that manger clasp their hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With gifts to brighten life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Alas! that in our favored land,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That cruelty and crime</div>
						<div class="line">Should cast their shadows o’er a day,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The fairest pearl of time.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">A dark-browed boy had drawn anear</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A band of savage men,</div>
						<div class="line">Just as a hapless lamb might stray</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Into a tiger’s den.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_51">51</span>Cruel and dull, they saw in him</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For sport an evil chance,</div>
						<div class="line">And then demanded of the child</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To give to them a dance.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Come dance for us,” the rough men said;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“I can’t,” the child replied,</div>
						<div class="line">“I cannot for the dear Lord’s sake,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who for my sins once died.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Tho’ they were strong and he was weak,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He wouldn’t his Lord deny.</div>
						<div class="line">His life lay in their cruel hands,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But he for Christ could die.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Heard they aright? Did that brave child</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Their mandates dare resist?</div>
						<div class="line">Did he against their stern commands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Have courage to resist?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then recklessly a man (?) arose,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And dealt a fearful blow.</div>
						<div class="line">He crushed the portals of that life,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And laid the brave child low.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And trampled on his prostrate form,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As on a broken toy;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_52">52</span>Then danced with careless, brutal feet,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Upon the murdered boy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Christians! behold that martyred child!</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His blood cries from the ground;</div>
						<div class="line">Before the sleepless eye of God,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He shows each gaping wound.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! Church of Christ arise! arise!</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lest crimson stain thy hand,</div>
						<div class="line">When God shall inquisition make</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For blood shed in the land.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Take sackcloth of the darkest hue,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And shroud the pulpits round;</div>
						<div class="line">Servants of him who cannot lie</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Sit mourning on the ground.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Let holy horror blanch each brow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Pale every cheek with fears,</div>
						<div class="line">And rocks and stones, if ye could speak,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ye well might melt to tears.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Through every fane send forth a cry,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of sorrow and regret,</div>
						<div class="line">Nor in an hour of careless ease</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Thy brother’s wrongs forget.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_53">53</span>Veil not thine eyes, nor close thy lips,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Nor speak with bated breath;</div>
						<div class="line">This evil shall not always last,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The end of it is death.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Avert the doom that crime must bring</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Upon a guilty land;</div>
						<div class="line">Strong in the strength that God supplies,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For truth and justice stand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">For Christless men, with reckless hands,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Are sowing round thy path</div>
						<div class="line">The tempests wild that yet shall break</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In whirlwinds of God’s wrath.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-night-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Night of Death</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Twas a night of dreadful horror,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Death was sweeping through the land;</div>
						<div class="line">And the wings of dark destruction</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Were outstretched from strand to strand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Strong men’s hearts grew faint with terror,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As the tempest and the waves</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_54">54</span>Wrecked their homes and swept them downward,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Suddenly to yawning graves.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">’Mid the wastes of ruined households,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the tempest’s wild alarms,</div>
						<div class="line">Stood a terror-stricken mother</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With a child within her arms.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Other children huddled ’round her,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Each one nestling in her heart;</div>
						<div class="line">Swift in thought and swift in action,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She at least from one must part.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then she said unto her daughter,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Strive to save one child from death.”</div>
						<div class="line">“Which one?” said the anxious daughter,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As she stood with bated breath.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! the anguish of that mother;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">What despair was in her eye!</div>
						<div class="line">All her little ones were precious;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Which one should she leave to die?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then outspake the brother Bennie:</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“I will take the little one.”</div>
						<div class="line">“No,” exclaimed the anxious mother;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“No, my child, it can’t be done.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_55">55</span>“See! my boy, the waves are rising,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Save yourself and leave the child!”</div>
						<div class="line">“I will trust in Christ,” he answered;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Grasped the little one and smiled.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Through the roar of wind and waters</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ever and anon she cried;</div>
						<div class="line">But throughout the night of terror</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Never Bennie’s voice replied.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But above the waves’ wild surging</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He had found a safe retreat,</div>
						<div class="line">As if God had sent an angel,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Just to guide his wandering feet.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When the storm had spent its fury,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the sea gave up its dead,</div>
						<div class="line">She was mourning for her loved ones,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lost amid that night of dread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">While her head was bowed in anguish,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On her ear there fell a voice,</div>
						<div class="line">Bringing surcease to her sorrow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Bidding all her heart rejoice.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Didn’t I tell you true?” said Bennie,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And his eyes were full of light,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_56">56</span>“When I told you God would help me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Through the dark and dreadful night?”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And he placed the little darling</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Safe within his mother’s arms.</div>
						<div class="line">Feeling Christ had been his guardian,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Mid the dangers and alarms.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! for faith so firm and precious,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In the darkest, saddest night,</div>
						<div class="line">Till life’s gloom-encircled shadows</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Fade in everlasting light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And upon the mount of vision</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We our loved and lost shall greet,</div>
						<div class="line">With earth’s wildest storms behind us,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And its cares beneath our feet.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="mothers-treasures" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother’s Treasures</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Two little children sit by my side,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I call them Lily and Daffodil;</div>
						<div class="line">I gaze on them with a mother’s pride,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">One is Edna, the other is Will.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Both have eyes of starry light,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And laughing lips o’er teeth of pearl.</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_57">57</span>I would not change for a diadem</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My noble boy and darling girl.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To-night my heart o’erflows with joy;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I hold them as a sacred trust;</div>
						<div class="line">I fain would hide them in my heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Safe from tarnish of moth and rust.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">What should I ask for my dear boy?</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The richest gifts of wealth or fame?</div>
						<div class="line">What for my girl? A loving heart</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And a fair and a spotless name?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">What for my boy? That he should stand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A pillar of strength to the state?</div>
						<div class="line">What for my girl? That she should be</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The friend of the poor and desolate?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I do not ask they shall never tread</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With weary feet the paths of pain.</div>
						<div class="line">I ask that in the darkest hour</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They may faithful and true remain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I only ask their lives may be</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Pure as gems in the gates of pearl,</div>
						<div class="line">Lives to brighten and bless the world—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">This I ask for my boy and girl.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_58">58</span>I ask to clasp their hands again</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Mid the holy hosts of heaven,</div>
						<div class="line">Enraptured say: “I am here, oh! God,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the children Thou hast given.”</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-refiners-gold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Refiner’s Gold</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He stood before my heart’s closed door,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And asked to enter in;</div>
						<div class="line">But I had barred the passage o’er</div>
						<div class="in2 line">By unbelief and sin.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He came with nail-prints in his hands,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To set my spirit free;</div>
						<div class="line">With wounded feet he trod a path</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To come and sup with me.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He found me poor and brought me gold,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The fire of love had tried,</div>
						<div class="line">And garments whitened by his blood,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My wretchedness to hide.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The glare of life had dimmed my eyes,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Its glamour was too bright.</div>
						<div class="line">He came with ointment in his hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To heal my darkened sight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_59">59</span>He knew my heart was tempest-tossed,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">By care and pain oppressed;</div>
						<div class="line">He whispered to my burdened heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Come unto me and rest.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He found me weary, faint and worn,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On barren mountains cold;</div>
						<div class="line">With love’s constraint he drew me on,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To shelter in his fold.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! foolish heart, how slow wert thou</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To welcome thy dear guest,</div>
						<div class="line">To change thy weariness and care</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For comfort, peace and rest.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Close to his side, oh! may I stay,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Just to behold his face,</div>
						<div class="line">Till I shall wear within my soul</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The image of his grace.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The grace that changes hearts of stone</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To tenderness and love,</div>
						<div class="line">And bids us run with willing feet</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unto his courts above.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="a-story-of-the-rebellion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Story of the Rebellion</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The treacherous sands had caught our boat,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And held it with a strong embrace</div>
						<div class="line">And death at our imprisoned crew</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was sternly looking face to face.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">With anxious hearts, but failing strength,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We strove to push the boat from shore;</div>
						<div class="line">But all in vain, for there we lay</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With bated breath and useless oar.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Around us in a fearful storm</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The fiery hail fell thick and fast;</div>
						<div class="line">And we engirded by the sand,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Could not return the dreadful blast.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When one arose upon whose brow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The ardent sun had left his trace;</div>
						<div class="line">A noble purpose strong and high</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Uplighting all his dusky face.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Perchance within that fateful hour</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The wrongs of ages thronged apace;</div>
						<div class="line">But with it came the glorious hope</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of swift deliverance to his race.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of galling chains asunder rent,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of severed hearts again made one,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_61">61</span>Of freedom crowning all the land</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Through battles gained and victories won.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Some one,” our hero firmly said,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Must die to get us out of this;”</div>
						<div class="line">Then leaped upon the strand and bared</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His bosom to the bullets’ hiss.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“But ye are soldiers, and can fight,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">May win in battles yet unfought;</div>
						<div class="line">I have no offering but my life,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And if they kill me it is nought.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">With steady hands he grasped the boat,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And boldly pushed it from the shore;</div>
						<div class="line">Then fell by rebel bullets pierced,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His life work grandly, nobly o’er.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Our boat was rescued from the sands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And launched in safety on the tide;</div>
						<div class="line">But he our comrade good and grand,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In our defence had bravely died.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="burial-of-sarah" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Burial of Sarah</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He stood before the sons of Heth,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And bowed his sorrowing head;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_62">62</span>“I’ve come,” he said, “to buy a place</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where I may lay my dead.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“I am a stranger in your land,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My home has lost its light;</div>
						<div class="line">Grant me a place where I may lay</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My dead away from sight.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then tenderly the sons of Heth</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Gazed on the mourner’s face,</div>
						<div class="line">And said, “Oh, Prince, amid our dead,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Choose thou her resting-place.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“The sepulchres of those we love,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We place at thy command;</div>
						<div class="line">Against the plea thy grief hath made</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We close not heart nor hand.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The patriarch rose and bowed his head,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And said, “One place I crave;</div>
						<div class="line">’Tis at the end of Ephron’s field,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And called Machpelah’s cave.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Entreat him that he sell to me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For her last sleep that cave;</div>
						<div class="line">I do not ask for her I loved</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The freedom of a grave.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_63">63</span>The son of Zohar answered him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Hearken, my lord, to me;</div>
						<div class="line">Before our sons, the field and cave</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I freely give to thee.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“I will not take it as a gift,”</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The grand old man then said;</div>
						<div class="line">“I pray thee let me buy the place</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where I may lay my dead.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And with the promise in his heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His seed should own that land,</div>
						<div class="line">He gave the shekels for the field</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He took from Ephron’s hand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And saw afar the glorious day</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His chosen seed should tread,</div>
						<div class="line">The soil where he in sorrow lay</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His loved and cherished dead.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="going-east" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Going East</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">She came from the East a fair, young bride,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With a light and a bounding heart,</div>
						<div class="line">To find in the distant West a home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With her husband to make a start.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_64">64</span>He builded his cabin far away,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where the prairie flower bloomed wild;</div>
						<div class="line">Her love made lighter all his toil,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And joy and hope around him smiled.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">She plied her hands to life’s homely tasks,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And helped to build his fortunes up;</div>
						<div class="line">While joy and grief, like bitter and sweet,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Were mingled and mixed in her cup.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He sowed in his fields of golden grain,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All the strength of his manly prime;</div>
						<div class="line">Nor music of birds, nor brooks, nor bees,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was as sweet as the dollar’s chime.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">She toiled and waited through weary years</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For the fortune that came at length;</div>
						<div class="line">But toil and care and hope deferred,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had stolen and wasted her strength.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The cabin changed to a stately home,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Rich carpets were hushing her tread;</div>
						<div class="line">But light was fading from her eye,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the bloom from her cheek had fled.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Her husband was adding field to field,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And new wealth to his golden store;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_65">65</span>And little thought the shadow of death</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was entering in at his door.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Slower and heavier grew her step,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">While his gold and his gains increased;</div>
						<div class="line">But his proud domain had not the charm</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of her humble home in the East.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He had no line to sound the depths</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of her tears repressed and unshed;</div>
						<div class="line">Nor dreamed ’mid plenty a human heart</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Could be starving, but not for bread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Within her eye was a restless light,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And a yearning that never ceased,</div>
						<div class="line">A longing to see the dear old home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She had left in the distant East.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">A longing to clasp her mother’s hand,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And nestle close to her heart,</div>
						<div class="line">And to feel the heavy cares of life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Like the sun-kissed shadows depart.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The hungry heart was stilled at last;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Its restless, baffled yearning ceased.</div>
						<div class="line">A lonely man sat by the bier</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of a corpse that was going East.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-hermits-sacrifice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Hermit’s Sacrifice</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">From Rome’s palaces and villas</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Gaily issued forth a throng;</div>
						<div class="line">From her humbler habitations</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Moved a human tide along.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Haughty dames and blooming maidens,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Men who knew not mercy’s sway,</div>
						<div class="line">Thronged into the Coliseum</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On that Roman holiday.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">From the lonely wilds of Asia,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From her jungles far away,</div>
						<div class="line">From the distant torrid regions,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Rome had gathered beasts of prey.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Lions restless, roaring, rampant,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Tigers with their stealthy tread,</div>
						<div class="line">Leopards bright, and fierce, and fiery,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Met in conflict wild and dread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Fierce and fearful was the carnage</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of the maddened beasts of prey,</div>
						<div class="line">As they fought and rent each other</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Urged by men more fierce than they.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Till like muffled thunders breaking</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On a vast and distant shore,</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_67">67</span>Fainter grew the yells of tigers,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the lions’ dreadful roar.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">On the crimson-stained arena</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lay the victims of the fight;</div>
						<div class="line">Eyes which once had glared with anguish,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lost in death their baleful light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then uprose the gladiators</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Armed for conflict unto death,</div>
						<div class="line">Waiting for the prefect’s signal,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Cold and stern with bated breath.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Ave Cæsar, morituri,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Te, salutant,” rose the cry</div>
						<div class="line">From the lips of men ill-fated,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Doomed to suffer and to die.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then began the dreadful contest,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lives like chaff were thrown away,</div>
						<div class="line">Rome with all her pride and power</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Butchered for a holiday.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Eagerly the crowd were waiting,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Loud the clashing sabres rang,</div>
						<div class="line">When between the gladiators</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All unarmed a hermit sprang.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_68">68</span>“Cease your bloodshed,” cried the hermit,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“On this carnage place your ban;”</div>
						<div class="line">But with flashing swords they answered,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Back unto your place, old man.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">From their path the gladiators</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Thrust the strange intruder back,</div>
						<div class="line">Who between their hosts advancing</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Calmly parried their attack.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">All undaunted by their weapons,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Stood the old heroic man;</div>
						<div class="line">While a maddened cry of anger</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Through the vast assembly ran.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Down with him,” cried out the people,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As with thumbs unbent they glared,</div>
						<div class="line">Till the prefect gave the signal</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That his life should not be spared.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Men grew wild with wrathful passion,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When his fearless words were said.</div>
						<div class="line">Cruelly they fiercely showered</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Stones on his devoted head.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Bruised and bleeding fell the hermit,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Victor in that hour of strife;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_69">69</span>Gaining in his death a triumph</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That he could not win in life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Had he uttered on the forum</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Struggling thoughts within him born,</div>
						<div class="line">Men had jeered his words as madness,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But his deed they could not scorn.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Not in vain had been his courage,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Nor for naught his daring deed;</div>
						<div class="line">From his grave his mangled body</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did for wretched captives plead.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">From that hour Rome, grown more thoughtful,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ceased her sport in human gore;</div>
						<div class="line">And into her Coliseum</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Gladiators came no more.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="songs-for-the-people" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Songs for the People</h2>
			<div class="c007 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Let me make the songs for the people,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Songs for the old and young;</div>
						<div class="line">Songs to stir like a battle-cry</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Wherever they are sung.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Not for the clashing of sabres,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For carnage nor for strife;</div>
						<div class="line"><span class="pageno" id="Page_70">70</span>But songs to thrill the hearts of men</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With more abundant life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Let me make the songs for the weary,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Amid life’s fever and fret,</div>
						<div class="line">Till hearts shall relax their tension,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And careworn brows forget.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Let me sing for little children,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Before their footsteps stray,</div>
						<div class="line">Sweet anthems of love and duty,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To float o’er life’s highway.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I would sing for the poor and aged,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When shadows dim their sight;</div>
						<div class="line">Of the bright and restful mansions,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where there shall be no night.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Our world, so worn and weary,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Needs music, pure and strong,</div>
						<div class="line">To hush the jangle and discords</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of sorrow, pain, and wrong.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Music to soothe all its sorrow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Till war and crime shall cease;</div>
						<div class="line">And the hearts of men grown tender</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Girdle the world with peace.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
