<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="moses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Moses</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Story of the Nile</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="moses-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Parting</p>
				</hgroup>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Kind and gracious princess, more than friend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ve come to thank thee for thy goodness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to breathe into thy generous ears</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My last and sad farewell. I go to join</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fortunes of my race, and to put aside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All other bright advantages, save</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The approval of my conscience and the meed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of rightly doing.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What means, my son, this strange election?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What wild chimera floats across thy mind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What sudden impulse moves thy soul? Thou who</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hast only trod the court of kings, why seek</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Instead the paths of labor? Thou, whose limbs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have known no other garb than that which well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Befits our kingly state, why rather choose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The badge of servitude and toil?</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Let me tell thee, gracious princess; ’tis no</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sudden freak nor impulse wild that moves my mind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I feel an earnest purpose binding all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My soul unto a strong resolve, which bids</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me put aside all other ends and aims,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until the hour shall come when God⁠—the God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our fathers loved and worshipped⁠—shall break our chains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lead our willing feet to freedom.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Listen to me, Moses: thou art young,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the warm blood of youth flushes thy veins</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like generous wine; thou wearest thy manhood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like a crown; but what king e’er cast</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His diadem in the dust, to be trampled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down by every careless foot? Thou hast</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bright dreams and glowing hopes; could’st thou not live</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Them out as well beneath the radiance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of our throne as in the shadow of those</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bondage-darkened huts?</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Within those darkened huts my mother plies her tasks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My father bends to unrequited toil;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bitter tears moisten the bread my brethren eat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when I gaze upon their cruel wrongs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The very purple on my limbs seems drenched</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With blood, the warm blood of my own kindred race;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then thy richest viands pall upon my taste,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And discord jars in every tone of song.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cannot live in pleasure while they faint</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In pain.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>How like a dream the past floats back: it seems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But yesterday when I lay tossing upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My couch of pain, a torpor creeping through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each nerve, a fever coursing through my veins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there I lay, dreaming of lilies fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of lotus flowers and past delights, and all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bright, glad hopes, that give to early life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its glow and flush; and thus day after day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dragged its slow length along, until, one morn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The breath of lilies, fainting on the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Floated into my room, and then I longed once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To gaze upon the Nile, as on the face</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a familiar friend, whose absence long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had made a mournful void within the heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I summoned to my side my maids, and bade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Them place my sandals on my feet, and lead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me to the Nile, where I might bathe my weary</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Limbs within the cooling flood, and gather</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Healing from the sacred stream.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sought my favorite haunt, and, bathing, found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>New tides of vigor coursing through my veins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Refreshed, I sat me down to weave a crown of lotus leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lilies fair, and while I sat in a sweet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Revery, dreaming of life and hope, I saw</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A little wicker-basket hidden among</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flags and lilies of the Nile, and I called</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My maidens and said, “Nillias and Osiria</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bring me that little ark which floats beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stream.” They ran and brought me a precious burden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Twas an ark woven with rushes and daubed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With slime, and in it lay a sleeping child;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His little hand amid his clustering curls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a bright flush upon his glowing cheek.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He wakened with a smile, and reached out his hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To meet the welcome of the mother’s kiss,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When strange faces met his gaze, and he drew back</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a grieved, wondering look, while disappointment</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shook the quivering lip that missed the mother’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wonted kiss, and the babe lifted his voice and wept.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then my heart yearned towards him, and I resolved</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That I would brave my father’s wrath and save</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The child; but while I stood gazing upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His wondrous beauty, I saw beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A Hebrew girl, her eyes bent on me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With an eager, questioning look, and drawing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Near, she timidly said, “shall I call a nurse?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I bade her go; she soon returned, and with her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came a woman of the Hebrew race, whose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sad, sweet, serious eyes seemed overflowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a strange and sudden joy. I placed the babe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within her arms and said, “Nurse this child for me;”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the babe nestled there like one at home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While o’er the dimples of his face rippled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The brightest, sweetest smiles, and I was well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Content to leave him in her care; and well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did she perform her part. When many days had</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passed she brought the child unto the palace;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And one morning, while I sat toying with</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His curls and listening to the prattle of his</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Untrained lips, my father, proud and stately,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Saw me bending o’er the child and said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Charmian, whose child is this? who of my lords</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Calls himself father to this goodly child?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He surely must be a happy man.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Then I said, “Father, he is mine. He is a</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hebrew child that I have saved from death.” He</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suddenly recoiled, as if an adder</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had stung him, and said, “Charmian, take that</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Child hence. How darest thou bring a member</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that mean and servile race within my doors?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, rather let me send for Nechos, whose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ready sword shall rid me of his hateful presence.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then kneeling at his feet, and catching</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hold of his royal robes, I said, “Not so,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh! honored father, he is mine; I snatched</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him from the hungry jaws of death, and foiled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The greedy crocodile of his prey; he has</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eaten bread within thy palace walls, and thy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Salt lies upon his fresh young lips; he has</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="dl2">
							<span>A claim upon thy mercy.”</span>
							<span>“Charmian,” he said,</span>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I have decreed that every man child of that</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hated race shall die. The oracles have said</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pyramids shall wane before their shadow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And from them a star shall rise whose light shall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spread over earth a baleful glow; and this is why</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I root them from the land; their strength is weakness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To my throne. I shut them from the light lest they</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bring darkness to my kingdom. Now, Charmian,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me up the child, and let him die.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then clasping the child closer to my heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I said, “the pathway to his life is through my own;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Around that life I throw my heart, a wall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of living, loving clay.” Dark as the thunder</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clouds of distant lands became my father’s brow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his eyes flashed with the fierce lightnings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his wrath; but while I plead, with eager</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eyes upturned, I saw a sudden change come</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over him; his eyes beamed with unwonted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tenderness, and he said, “Charmian, arise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy prayer is granted; just then thy dead mother</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came to thine eyes, and the light of Asenath</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Broke over thy face. Asenath was the light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of my home; the star that faded out too</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suddenly from my dwelling, and left my life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To darkness, grief and pain, and for her sake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not thine, I’ll spare the child.” And thus I saved</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thee twice—once from the angry sword and once</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the devouring flood. Moses, thou art</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Doubly mine; as such I claimed thee then, as such</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I claim thee now. I’ve nursed no other child</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon my knee, and pressed upon no other</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lips the sweetest kisses of my love, and now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With rash and careless hand, thou dost thrust aside that love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There was a painful silence, a silence</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So hushed and still that you might have almost</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heard the hurried breathing of one and the quick.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Throbbing of the other’s heart: for Moses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He was slow of speech, but she was eloquent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With words of tenderness and love, and had breathed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her full heart into her lips; but there was</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Firmness in the young man’s choice, and he beat back</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The opposition of her lips with the calm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grandeur of his will, and again he essayed to speak.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Gracious lady, thou remembrest well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Hebrew nurse to whom thou gavest thy foundling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That woman was my mother; from her lips I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Learned the grand traditions of our race that float,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all their weird and solemn beauty, around</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our wrecked and blighted fortunes. How oft!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With kindling eye and glowing cheek, forgetful</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the present pain, she would lead us through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The distant past: the past, hallowed by deeds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of holy faith and lofty sacrifice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How she would tell us of Abraham,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The father of our race, that he dwelt in Ur;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Chaldees, and when the Chaldean king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had called him to his sacrifice, that he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had turned from his dumb idols to the living</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God, and wandered out from kindred, home and race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Led by his faith in God alone; and she would</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tell us⁠—(we were three,) my brother Aaron,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Hebrew girl thou sentest to call a nurse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I, her last, her loved and precious child;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She would tell us that one day our father</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Abraham heard a voice, bidding him offer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up in sacrifice the only son of his</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beautiful and beloved Sarah; that the father’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heart shrank not before the bitter test of faith,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But he resolved to give his son to God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As a burnt offering upon Moriah’s mount;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That the uplifted knife glittered in the morning</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sun, when, sweeter than the music of a thousand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Harps, he heard a voice bidding him stay his hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And spare the child; and how his faith, like gold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tried in the fiercest fire, shone brighter through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its fearful test. And then she would tell us</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a promise, handed down from sire to son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That God, the God our fathers loved and worshiped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would break our chains, and bring to us a great</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deliverance; that we should dwell in peace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath our vines and palms, our flocks and herds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Increase, and joyful children crowd our streets;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then she would lift her eyes unto the far</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off hills and tell us of the patriarchs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of our line, who sleep in distant graves within</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That promised land; and now I feel the hour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Draws near which brings deliverance to our race.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>These are but the dreams of thy young fancy;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cannot comprehend thy choice. I have heard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of men who have waded through slaughter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To a throne; of proud ambitions, struggles</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fierce and wild for some imagined good; of men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who have even cut in twain the crimson threads</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That lay between them and a throne; but I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never heard of men resigning ease for toil,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The splendor of a palace for the squalor</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a hut, and casting down a diadem</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="dl2">
							<span>To wear a servile badge.</span>
							<span>Sadly she gazed</span>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon the fair young face lit with its lofty</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Faith and high resolves⁠—the dark prophetic eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which seemed to look beyond the present pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto the future greatness of his race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As she stood before him in the warm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loveliness of her ripened womanhood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her languid eyes glowed with unwonted fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the bright tropical blood sent its quick</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flushes o’er the olive of her cheek, on which</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still lay the lingering roses of her girlhood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grief, wonder, and surprise flickered like shadows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O’er her face as she stood slowly crushing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With unconscious hand the golden tassels</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of her crimson robe. She had known life only</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By its brightness, and could not comprehend</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The grandeur of the young man’s choice; but she</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Felt her admiration glow before the earnest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Faith that tore their lives apart and led him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To another destiny. She had hoped to see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crown of Egypt on his brow, the sacred</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leopard skin adorn his shoulders, and his seat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The throne of the proud Pharaoh’s; but now her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dream had faded out and left a bitter pang</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of anguish in its stead. And thus they parted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She to brood in silence o’er her pain, and he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To take his mission from the hands of God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lead his captive race to freedom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With silent lips but aching heart she bowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her queenly head and let him pass, and he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Went forth to share the fortune of his race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Esteeming that as better far than pleasures</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bought by sin and gilded o’er with vice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he had chosen well, for on his brow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God poured the chrism of a holy work.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thus anointed he has stood a bright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ensample through the changing centuries of time.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a great change from the splendor, light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pleasure of a palace to the lowly huts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Of those who sighed because of cruel bondage.</span>
						<span>As he passed</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the outer courts of that proud palace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He paused a moment just to gaze upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scenes ’mid which his early life had passed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pleasant haunts amid the fairest flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fountains tossing on the air their silver spray⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The statues breathing music soft and low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To greet the first faint flushes of the morn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The obelisks that rose in lofty grandeur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From their stony beds⁠—the sphynxes gaunt and grim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With unsolved riddles on their lips⁠—and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bright creation’s painters art and sculptors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skill had gathered in those regal halls, where mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dance, and revelry, and song had chased</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With careless feet the bright and fleeting hours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was leaving all; but no regrets came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a shadow o’er his mind, for he had felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The quickening of a higher life, as if his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soul had wings and he were conscious of their growth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet there was a tender light in those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark eyes which looked their parting on the scenes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of beauty, where his life had been a joyous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dream enchanted with delight; but he trampled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each vain regret as on a vanquished foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And went forth a strong man, girded with lofty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Purposes and earnest faith. He journeyed on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till palaces and domes and lofty fanes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gorgeous temples faded from his sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lowly homes of Goshen came in view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There he saw the women of his race kneading</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their tale of bricks; the sons of Abraham</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crouching beneath their heavy burdens. He saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The increasing pallor on his sister’s cheek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deepening shadows on his mother’s brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The restless light that glowed in Aaron’s eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a hidden fire were smouldering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his brain; and bending o’er his mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a tender, loving way, he said, “Mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve come to share the fortunes of my race⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dwell within these lowly huts⁠—to wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The badge of servitude and toil, and eat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bitter bread of penury and pain.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden light beamed from his mother’s eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she said, “How’s this, my son? but yesterday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two Hebrews, journeying from On to Goshen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told us they had passed the temple of the Sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But dared not enter, only they had heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it was a great day in On; that thou hadst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forsworn thy kindred, tribe and race; hadst bowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy knee to Egypt’s vain and heathen worship;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hadst denied the God of Abraham, of Isaac,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of Jacob, and from henceforth wouldst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be engrafted in Pharaoh’s regal line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When thy father Amram heard the cruel news</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He bowed his head upon his staff and wept.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I had stronger faith than that. By faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hid thee when the bloody hands of Pharaoh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were searching ’mid our quivering heart strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dooming our sons to death; by faith I wove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rushes of thine ark and laid thee ’mid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags and lilies of the Nile, and saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answer to that faith when Pharaoh’s daughter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Placed thee in my arms, and bade me nurse the child</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For her; and by that faith sustained, I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As idle words the cruel news that stabbed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy father like a sword.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Hebrews did not hear aright; last week</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a great day in On, from Esoan’s gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the mighty sea; the princes, lords</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chamberlains of Egypt were assembled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The temple of the sun was opened. Isis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Osiris were unveiled before the people;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Apis and Orus were crowned with flowers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Golden censers breathed their fragrance on the air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sacrifice was smoking on the altar;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first fruits of the Nile lay on the tables</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the sun: the music rose in lofty swells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then sank in cadences so soft and low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the air grew tremulous with rapture.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The priests of On were there, with sacred palms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within their hands and lotus leaves upon their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brows; Pharaoh and his daughter sat waiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their regal chairs; all were ready to hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me bind my soul to Egypt, and to swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Allegiance to her gods. The priests of On</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drew near to lay their hands upon my head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bid me swear, ‘Now, by Osiris, judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the dead, and Isis, mother of us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All,’ that henceforth I’d forswear my kindred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tribe and race; would have no other gods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than those of Egypt; would be engrafted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into Pharaoh’s royal line, and be called</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The son of Pharaoh’s daughter. Then, mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, I lived the past again. Again I sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside thee, my lips apart with childish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wonder, my eager eyes uplifted to thy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing face, and my young soul gathering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspiration from thy words. Again I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee tell the grand traditions of our race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blessed hopes and glorious promises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That weave their golden threads among the sombre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tissues of our lives, and shimmer still amid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gloom and shadows of our lot. Again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard thee tell of Abraham, with his constant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith and earnest trust in God, unto whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The promise came that in his seed should all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nations of the earth be blessed. Of Isaac,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessing with disappointed lips his first born son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From whom the birthright had departed. Of Jacob,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his warm affections and his devious ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flying berore the wrath of Esau; how he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slumbered in the wild, and saw amid his dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ladder reaching to the sky, on which God’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angels did descend, and waking, with a solemn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awe o’ershadowing all, his soul exclaimed, ‘How</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dreadful is this place. Lo! God is here, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew it not.’ Of Joseph, once a mighty prince</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within this land, who shrank in holy horror</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the soft white hand that beckoned him to sin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose heart, amid the pleasures, pomp and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Egypt, was ever faithful to his race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when his life was trembling on its frailest chord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He turned his dying eyes to Canaan, and made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brethren swear that they would make his grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the patriarchs of his line, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Machpelah’s cave, where Abraham bowed before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sons of Heth, and bought a place to lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His loved and cherished dead, was dearer to his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dying heart than the proudest tomb amid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The princely dead of Egypt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Then, like the angels, mother dear, who met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our father Jacob on his way, thy words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came back as messengers of light to guide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My steps, and I refused to be called the son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh’s daughter. I saw the priests of On</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow pale with fear, an ashen terror creeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er the princess’ face, while Pharaoh’s brow grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darker than the purple of his cloak. But I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endured, as seeing him who hides his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the brightness of his glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus I left the pomp and pride of Egypt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cast my lot among the people of my race.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Flight Into Midian</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The love of Moses for his race soon found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stern expression. Pharaoh was building</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pyramid; ambitious, cold and proud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He scrupled not at means to gain his ends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he feared the growing power of Israel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stained his hands in children’s blood, and held</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A carnival of death in Goshen; but now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wished to hand his name and memory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down unto the distant ages, and instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lading that memory with the precious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fragrance of the kindest deeds and words, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Essayed to write it out in stone, as cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>And hard, and heartless as himself.</span>
						<span>And Israel was</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fated race to whom the cruel tasks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were given. Day after day a cry of wrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And anguish, some dark deed of woe and crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came to the ear of Moses, and he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“These reports are ever harrowing my soul;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go unto the fields where Pharaoh’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Officers exact their labors, and see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If these things be so⁠—if they smite the feeble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At their tasks, and goad the aged on to toils</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond their strength⁠–⁠if neither age nor sex</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is spared the cruel smiting of their rods.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>And Moses went to see his brethren.</span>
						<span>’Twas eventide,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the laborers were wending their way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto their lowly huts. ’Twas a sad sight⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The young girls walked without the bounding steps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of youth, with faces prematurely old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if the rosy hopes and sunny promises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life had never flushed their cheeks with girlish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy; and there were men whose faces seemed to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We bear our lot in hopeless pain, we’ve bent unto</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our burdens until our shoulders fit them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as slaves we crouch beneath our servitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And toil. But there were men whose souls were cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In firmer moulds, men with dark secretive eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which seemed to say, to-day we bide our time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hide our wrath in every nerve, and only</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wait a fitting hour to strike the hands that press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us down. Then came the officers of Pharaoh;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They trod as lords, their faces flushed with pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And insolence, watching the laborers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sadly wending their way from toil to rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Moses’ heart swelled with a mighty pain; sadly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Musing, he sought a path that led him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the busy haunts of men. But even there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cruel wrong trod in his footsteps; he heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heavy groan, then harsh and bitter words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, looking back, he saw an officer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh smiting with rough and cruel hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An aged man. Then Moses’ wrath o’erflowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lips, and every nerve did tremble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a sense of wrong, and bounding forth he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried unto the smiter, “Stay thy hand; seest thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That aged man? His head is whiter than our</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Desert sands; his limbs refuse to do thy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bidding because thy cruel tasks have drained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away their strength.” The Egyptian raised his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sudden wonder; who was this that dared dispute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His power? Only a Hebrew youth. His</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud lip curved in scornful anger, and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waved a menace with his hand, saying, “back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thy task base slave, nor dare resist the will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh.” Then Moses’ wrath o’erleaped the bounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of prudence, and with a heavy blow he felled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smiter to the earth, and Israel had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One tyrant less. Moses saw the mortal paleness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chase the flushes from the Egyptian’s face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whitening lips that breathed no more defiance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the relaxing tension of the well knit limbs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he knew that he was dead, he hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him in the sand and left him to his rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">Another day Moses walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abroad, and saw two brethren striving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For mastery; and then his heart grew full</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tender pity. They were brethren, sharers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a common wrong: should not their wrongs more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Closely bind their hearts, and union, not division,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be their strength? And feeling thus, he said, “ye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are brethren, wherefore do ye strive together?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they threw back his words in angry tones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked if he had come to judge them, and would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mete to them the fate of the Egyptian?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses knew the sand had failed to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His secret, that his life no more was safe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Goshen, and he fled unto the deserts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Arabia and became a shepherd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the priest of Midian.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Men grow strong in action, but in solitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their thoughts are ripened. Like one who cuts away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bridge on which he has walked in safety</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the other side, so Moses cut off all retreat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Pharaoh’s throne, and did choose the calling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most hateful to an Egyptian; he became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shepherd, and led his flocks and herds amid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solitudes and wilds of Midian, where he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nursed in silent loneliness his earnest faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In God and a constant love for kindred, tribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And race. Years stole o’er him, but they took</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No atom from his strength, nor laid one heavy weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his shoulders. The down upon his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ripened to a heavy beard; the fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That glowed within his youthful eye had deepened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a calm and steady light, and yet his heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was just as faithful to his race as when he had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood in Pharaoh’s courts and bade farewell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto his daughter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a look of patient waiting on his face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A calm, grand patience, like one who had lifted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up his eyes to God and seen, with meekened face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wings of some great destiny o’ershadowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All his life with strange and solemn glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the hour came when he must pass from thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To action⁠—when the hope of many years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must reach its grand fruition, and Israel’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great deliverance dawn. It happened thus:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day, as Moses led his flocks, he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fertile spot skirted by desert sands⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pleasant place for flocks and herds to nip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tender grass and rest within its shady nooks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as he paused and turned, he saw a bush with fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aglow; from root to stem a lambent flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sent up its jets and sprays of purest light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet the bush, with leaves uncrisped, uncurled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was just as green and fresh as if the breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of early spring were kissing every leaf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses said I’ll turn aside to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This sight, and as he turned he heard a voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bidding him lay his sandals by, for Lo! he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood on holy ground. Then Moses bowed his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his staff and spread his mantle o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His face, lest he should see the dreadful majesty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of God; and there, upon that lonely spot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Horeb’s mount, his shrinking hands received</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The burden of his God, which bade him go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Egypt’s guilty king, and bid him let</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The oppressed go free.</span>
						<span>Commissioned thus</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gathered up his flocks and herds and sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tents of Jethro, and said “I pray thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me go and see if yet my kindred live;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Jethro bade him go in peace, nor sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To throw himself across the purpose of his soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet there was a tender parting in that home;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were moistened eyes, and quivering lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lingering claspings of the parting hand, as Jethro</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his daughters stood within the light of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clean morn, and gave to Moses and his wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sons their holy wishes and their sad farewells.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he had been a son and brother in that home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since first with manly courtesy he had filled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The empty pails of Reuel’s daughters, and found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shelter ’neath his tent when flying from</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The wrath of Pharaoh.</span>
						<span>They journeyed on,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moses, Zipporah and sons, she looking back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tender love upon the home she had left,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all its precious memories crowding round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her heart, and he with eager eyes tracking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His path across the desert, longing once more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the long-lost faces of his distant home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loving eyes so wont to sun him with their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Welcome, and the aged hands that laid upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His youthful head their parting blessing. They</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Journeyed on till morning’s flush and noonday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendor glided into the softened, mellowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light of eve, and the purple mists were deep’ning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the cliffs and hills, when Horeb, dual</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crowned, arose before him; and there he met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brother Aaron, sent by God to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His spokesman and to bear him company</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Pharaoh. Tender and joyous was their greeting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They talked of home and friends until the lighter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ripple of their thoughts in deeper channels flowed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then they talked of Israel’s bondage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the great deliverance about to dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the fortunes of their race; and Moses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told him of the burning bush, and how the message</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his God was trembling on his lips. And thus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They talked until the risen moon had veiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mount in soft and silvery light; and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They rested until morn, and rising up, refreshed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sleep, pursued their way until they reached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The land of Goshen, and gathered up the elders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their race, and told them of the message</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their Father’s God. Then eager lips caught up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The words of hope and passed the joyful news</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around, and all the people bowed their heads</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifted up their hearts in thankfulness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i14">That same day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moses sought an audience with the king. He found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him on his throne surrounded by the princes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his court, who bowed in lowly homage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At his feet. And Pharaoh heard with curving lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flushing cheek the message of the Hebrew’s God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then asked in cold and scornful tones, “Has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Israel a God, and if so where has he dwelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ages? As the highest priest of Egypt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have prayed to Isis, and the Nile has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Overflowed her banks and filled the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With plenty, but these poor slaves have cried unto</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their God, then crept in want and sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To their graves. Surely Mizraim’s God is strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Israel’s is weak; then wherefore should</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heed his voice, or at his bidding break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A single yoke?” Thus reasoned that proud king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned a deafened ear unto the words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Moses and bis brother, and yet he felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strangely awed before their presence, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stood as men who felt the grandeur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their mission, and thought not of themselves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But of their message.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On the next day Pharaoh called a council</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his mighty men, and before them laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The message of the brethren: then Amorphel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keeper of the palace and nearest lord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the king, arose, and bending low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the throne, craved leave to speak a word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amorphel was a crafty, treacherous man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With oily lips well versed in flattery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And courtly speech, a supple reed ready</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bend before his royal master’s lightest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breath⁠—Pharaoh’s willing tool. He said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Gracious king, thou has been too lenient</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With these slaves; light as their burdens are, they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fret and chafe beneath them. They are idle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the blood runs riot in their veins. Now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou would’st have these people dwell in peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Increase, I pray thee, their tasks and add unto</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their burdens; if they faint beneath their added</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tasks, they will have less time to plot sedition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And revolt.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Rhadma, oldest lord in Pharaoh’s court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arose. He was an aged man, whose white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heavy beard hung low upon his breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet there was a hard cold glitter in his eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on his face a proud and evil look.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had been a servant to the former king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wore his signet ring upon his hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said, “I know this Moses well. Fourscore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Years ago Princess Charmian found him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the Nile and rescued him from death, and did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Choose him as her son, and had him versed in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mysteries and lore of Egypt. But blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will tell, and this base slave, with servile blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within his veins, would rather be a servant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than a prince, and so, with rude and reckless hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thrust aside the honors of our dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Departed king. Pharaoh was justly wroth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But for his daughter’s sake he let the trespass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass. But one day this Moses slew an Egyptian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his wrath, and then the king did seek his life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But be fled, it is said, unto the deserts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Arabia, and became a shepherd for the priest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Midian. But now, instead of leading flocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And herds, he aspires to lead his captive race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To freedom. These men mean mischief; sedition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And revolt are in their plans. Decree, I pray thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That these men shall gather their own straw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet their tale of bricks shall be the same.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these words pleased Pharaoh well, and all his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lords chimed in with one accord. And Pharaoh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrote the stern decree and sent it unto Goshen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the laborers should gather their own straw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet they should not ’minish of their tale of bricks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">’Twas a sad day in Goshen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The king’s decree hung like a gloomy pall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around their homes. The people fainted ’neath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their added tasks, then cried unto the king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he would ease their burdens; but he hissed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A taunt into their ears and said, “ye are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Idle, and your minds are filled with vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And foolish thoughts; get you into your tasks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ye shall not ’minish of your tale of bricks.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">And then they turned their eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reproachfully on Moses and his brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laid the cruel blame upon their shoulders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis an old story now, but then ’twas new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the brethren⁠—how God’s anointed ones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must walk with bleeding feet the paths that turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lines of living light; how hands that bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Salvation in their palms are pierced with cruel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nails, and lips that quiver first with some great truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are steeped in bitterness and tears, and brows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now bright beneath the aureola of God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have bent beneath the thorny crowns of earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">There was hope for Israel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they did not see the golden fringes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their coming morn; they only saw the cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grey sky, and fainted ’neath the cheerless gloom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Moses sought again the presence of the king:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Pharaoh’s brow grew dark with wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rising up in angry haste, he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defiantly, “If thy God be great, show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us some sign or token of his power.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses threw his rod upon the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it trembled with a sign of life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dark wood glowed, then changed into a thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of glistening scales and golden rings, and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brown and purple stripes; a hissing, hateful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thing, that glared its fiery eye, and darting forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Moses’ side, lay coiled and panting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the monarch’s feet. With wonder open-eyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The king gazed on the changed rod, then called</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For his magicians⁠—wily men, well versed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sinful lore⁠—and bade them do the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they, leagued with the powers of night, did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Also change their rods to serpents; then Moses’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serpent darted forth, and with a startling hiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And angry gulp, he swallowed the living things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That coiled along his path. And thus did Moses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Show that Israel’s God had greater power</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Than those dark sons of night.</span>
						<span>But not by this alone</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did God his mighty power reveal: He changed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their waters; every fountain, well and pool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was red with blood, and lips, all parched with thirst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shrank back in horror from the crimson draughts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the worshiped Nile grew full of life:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions of frogs swarmed from the stream⁠—they clogged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pathway of the priests and filled the sacred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fanes, and crowded into Pharaoh’s bed, and hopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into his trays of bread, and slumbered in his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ovens and his pans.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then came another plague, of loathsome vermin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were gray and creeping things, that made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their very clothes alive with dark and sombre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spots⁠—things so loathsome in the land they did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suspend the service of the temple; for no priest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dared to lift his hand to any god with one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these upon him. And then the sky grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark, as if a cloud were passing o’er its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Changeless blue; a buzzing sound broke o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city, and the land was swarmed with flies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The murrain laid their cattle low; the hail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut off the first fruits of the Nile; the locusts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their hungry jaws, destroyed the later crops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left the ground as brown and bare as if a fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Had scorched it through.</span>
						<span>Then angry blains</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fiery boils did blur the flesh of man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beast; and then for three long days, nor saffron</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tint, nor crimson flush, nor soft and silvery light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divided day from morn, nor told the passage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the hours; men rose not from their seats, but sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In silent awe. That lengthened night lay like a burden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the air⁠—a darkness one might almost gather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his hand, it was so gross and thick. Then came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last dread plague⁠—the death of the first born.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i14">’Twas midnight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a startling shriek rose from each palace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Home and hut of Egypt, save the blood-besprinkled homes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Goshen; the midnight seemed to shiver with a sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dread, as if the mystic angel’s wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had chilled the very air with horror.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death! Death! was everywhere⁠—in every home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A corpse⁠—in every heart a bitter woe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were anxious fingerings for the pulse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ne’er would throb again, and eager listenings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some sound of life⁠—a hurrying to and fro⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then burning kisses on the cold lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dead, bitter partings, sad farewells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mournful sobs and piercing shrieks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And deep and heavy groans throughout the length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breadth of Egypt. ’Twas the last dread plague,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it had snapped in twain the chains on which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rust of ages lay, and Israel was freed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not only freed, but thrust in eager haste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From out the land. Trembling men stood by, and longed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see them gather up their flocks and herds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And household goods, and leave the land; because they felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That death stood at their doors as long as Israel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lingered there; and they went forth in haste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tread the paths of freedom.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But Pharaoh was strangely blind, and turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his first-born and his dead, with Egypt’s wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarce still upon his ear, he asked which way had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Israel gone? They told him that they journeyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Towards the mighty sea, and were encamped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near Baalzephon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Pharaoh said, “the wilderness will hem them in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mighty sea will roll its barriers in front,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with my chariots and my warlike men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll bring them back, or mete them out their graves.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">Then Pharaoh’s officers arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gathered up the armies of the king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made his chariots ready for pursuit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With proud escutcheons blazoned to the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his chariot of ivory, pearl and gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pharaoh rolled out of Egypt; and with him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode his mighty men, their banners floating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the breeze, their spears and armor glittering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the morning light; and Israel saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fainting hearts, their old oppressors on their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Track: then women wept in hopeless terror;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children hid their faces in their mothers’ robes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strong men bowed their heads in agony and dread;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a bitter, angry murmur rose⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Were there no graves in Egypt, that thou hast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought us here to die?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Then Moses lifted up his face, aglow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With earnest faith in God, and bade their fainting hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be strong and they should his salvation see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Stand still,” said Moses to the fearful throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hearts were fainting in the wild, “Stand still.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, that was Moses’ word, but higher and greater</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came God’s watchword for the hour, and not for that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone, but all the coming hours of time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Speak ye unto the people and bid them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forward go; stretch thy hand across the waters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smite them with thy rod.” And Moses smote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The restless sea; the waves stood up in heaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then lay as calm and still as lips that just</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had tasted death. The secret-loving sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid bare her coral caves and iris-tinted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Floor; that wall of flood which lined the people’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Way was God’s own wondrous masonry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The signal pillar sent to guide them through the wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moved its dark shadow till it fronted Egypt’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Camp, but hung in fiery splendor, a light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Israel’s path. Madly rushed the hosts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh upon the people’s track, when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solemn truth broke on them⁠—that God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Israel fought. With cheeks in terror</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blenching, and eyes astart with fear, “let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us flee,” they cried, “from Israel, for their God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doth fight against us; he is battling on their side.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They had trusted in their chariots, but now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hope was vain; God had loosened every</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Axle and unfastened every wheel, and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Face did gather blackness and each heart stood still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fear, as the livid lightnings glittered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the thunder roared and muttered on the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they saw the dreadful ruin that shuddered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er their heads, for the waves began to tremble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wall of flood to bend. Then arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cry of terror, baffled hate and hopeless dread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gurgling sound of horror, as the waves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came madly dashing, wildly crashing, seeking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out their place again, and the flower and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Egypt sank as lead within the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the waves threw back their corpses cold and stark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the shore, and the song of Israel’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triumph was the requiem of their foes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh the grandeur of that triumph; up the cliffs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down the valleys, o’er the dark and restless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sea, rose the people’s shout of triumph, going</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up in praise to God, and the very air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed joyous, for the choral song of millions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throbbed upon its viewless wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then another song of triumph rose in accents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soft and clear; ’twas the voice of Moses’ sister</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rising in the tide of song. The warm blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of her childhood seemed dancing in her veins;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The roses of her girlhood were flushing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On her cheek, and her eyes flashed out the splendor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of long departed days, for time itself seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pausing, and she lived the past again; again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Nile flowed by her; she was watching by the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little ark of rushes where her baby brother lay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tender tide of rapture swept o’er her soul again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She had felt when Pharaoh’s daughter had claimed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him as her own, and her mother wept for joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above her rescued son. Then again she saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him choosing “ ’twixt Israel’s pain and sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Egypt’s pomp and pride.” But now he stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their leader triumphant on that shore, and loud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She struck the cymbals as she led the Hebrew women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In music, dance and song, as they shouted out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triumphs in sweet and glad refrains.</span>
				</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<header>
						<p>Miriam’s Song</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>A wail in the palace, a wail in the hut,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The midnight is shivering with dread,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Egypt wakes up with a shriek and a sob</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To mourn for her first-born and dead.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In the morning glad voices greeted the light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As the Nile with its splendor was flushed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At midnight silence had melted their tones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their music forever is hushed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In the morning the princes of palace and court</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To the heir of the kingdom bowed down;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis midnight, pallid and stark in his shroud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He dreams not of kingdom or crown.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>As a monument blasted and blighted by God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Through the ages proud Pharaoh shall stand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All seamed with the vengeance and scarred with the wrath</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That leaped from God’s terrible hand.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They journeyed on from Zuphim’s sea until</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They reached the sacred mount and heard the solemn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decalogue. The mount was robed in blackness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heavy and deep the shadows lay; the thunder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crashed and roared upon the air; the lightning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaped from crag to crag; God’s fearful splendor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowed around, and Sinai quaked and shuddered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To its base, and there did God proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto their listening ears, the great, the grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The central and the primal truth of all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The universe⁠—the unity of God.</span>
						<span>Only one God⁠—</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This truth received into the world’s great life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not as an idle dream nor speculative thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But as a living, vitalizing thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should bind us closer to our God and link us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With our fellow man, the brothers and co-heirs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Christ, the elder brother of our race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before this truth let every blade of war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow dull, and slavery, cowering at the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skulk from the homes of men; instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of war bring peace and freedom, love and joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And light for man, instead of bondage, whips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chains. Only one God! the strongest hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should help the weak who bend before the blasts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life, because if God is only one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then we are the children of his mighty hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when we best serve man, we also serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our God. Let haughty rulers learn that men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of humblest birth and lowliest lot have</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rights as sacred and divine as theirs, and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fence in leagues of earth by bonds and claims</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And title deeds, forgetting land and water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Air and light are God’s own gifts and heritage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For man⁠—who throw their selfish lives between</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s sunshine and the shivering poor⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have never learned the wondrous depth, nor scaled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glorious height of this great central truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around which clusters all the holiest faiths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth. The thunder died upon the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lightning ceased its livid play, the smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And darkness died away in clouds, as soft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fair as summer wreaths that lie around</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The setting sun, and Sinai stood a bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rugged thing among the sacred scenes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a weary thing to bear the burden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that restless and rebellious race. With</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sinai’s thunders almost crashing in their ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They made a golden calf, and in the desert</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread an idol’s feast, and sung the merry songs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They had heard when Mizraim’s songs bowed down before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their vain and heathen gods; and thus for many years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did Moses bear the evil manners of his race⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their angry murmurs, fierce regrets and strange</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgetfulness of God. Born slaves, they did not love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freedom of the wild more than their pots of flesh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pleasant savory things once gathered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the gardens of the Nile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If slavery only laid its weight of chains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the weary, aching limbs, e’en then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It were a curse; but when it frets through nerve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flesh and eats into the weary soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh then it is a thing for every human</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heart to loathe, and this was Israel’s fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when the chains were shaken from their limbs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They failed to strike the impress from their souls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While he who’d basked beneath the radiance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a throne, ne’er turned regretful eyes upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The past, nor sighed to grasp again the pleasures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once resigned; but the saddest trial was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the light and joy fade from their faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the faithless spies spread through their camp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their ill report; and when the people wept</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hopeless unbelief and turned their faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egyptward, and asked a captain from their bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lead them back where they might bind anew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their broken chains, when God arose and shut</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gates of promise on their lives, and left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bones to bleach beneath Arabia’s desert sands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But though they slumbered in the wild, they died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With broader freedom on their lips, and for their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little ones did God reserve the heritage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So rudely thrust aside.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Death of Moses</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>His work was done; his blessing lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like precious ointment on his people’s head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God’s great peace was resting on his soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life had been a lengthened sacrifice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thing of deep devotion to his race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since first he turned his eyes on Egypt’s gild</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glow, and clasped their fortunes in his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held them with a firm and constant grasp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now his work was done; his charge was laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Joshua’s hand, and men of younger blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were destined to possess the land and pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through Jordan to the other side. He too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had hoped to enter there⁠—to tread the soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made sacred by the memories of his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kindred dead, and rest till life’s calm close beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sheltering vines and stately palms of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair land; that hope had colored all his life’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young dreams and sent its mellowed flushes o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His later years; but God’s decree was otherwise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so he bowed his meekened soul in calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Submission to the word, which bade him climb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Nebo’s highest peak, and view the pleasant land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Jordan’s swells unto the calmer ripples</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the tideless sea, then die with all its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loveliness in sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he passed from Moab’s grassy vale to climb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rugged mount, the people stood in mournful groups,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, with quivering lips and tearful eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reaching out unconscious hands, as if to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His steps and keep him ever at their side, while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others gazed with reverent awe upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The calm and solemn beauty on his aged brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The look of loving trust and lofty faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still beaming from an eye that neither care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor time had dimmed. As he passed upward, tender</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessings, earnest prayers and sad farewells rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each wave of air, then died in one sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murmur of regretful love; and Moses stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Alone on Nebo’s mount.</span>
						<span>Alone! not one</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all that mighty throng who had trod with him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In triumph through the parted flood was there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aaron had died in Hor, with son and brother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By his side; and Miriam too was gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But kindred hands had made her grave, and Kadesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held her dust. But he was all alone; nor wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor child was there to clasp in death his hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bind around their bleeding hearts the precious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parting words. And yet he was not all alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God’s great presence flowed around his path</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stayed him in that solemn hour.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">He stood upon the highest peak of Nebo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw the Jordan chafing through its gorges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its banks made bright by scarlet blooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And purple blossoms. The placid lakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And emerald meadows, the snowy crest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of distant mountains, the ancient rocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That dripped with honey, the hills all bathed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In light and beauty; the shady groves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And peaceful vistas, the vines opprest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With purple riches, the fig trees fruit-crowned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green and golden, the pomegranates with crimson</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blushes, the olives with their darker clusters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose before him like a vision, full of beauty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And delight. Gazed he on the lovely landscape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till it faded from his view, and the wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of death’s sweet angel hovered o’er the mountain’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crest, and he heard his garments rustle through</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The watches of the night.</span>
						<span>Then another, fairer, vision</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke upon his longing gaze; ’twas the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crystal fountains, love and beauty, joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And light, for the pearly gates flew open,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his ransomed soul went in. And when morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er the mountain fringed each crag and peak with light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold and lifeless lay the leader. God had touched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes with slumber, giving his beloved sleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh never on that mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was seen a lovelier sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than the troupe of fair young angels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That gathered ’round the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gentle hands they bore bim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bright and shining train,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Nebo’s lonely mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sleep in Moab’s vale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they sung no mornful dirges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No solemn requiems said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the soft wave of their pinions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made music as they trod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no one heard them passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None saw their chosen grave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the angels’ secret</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Moses should be laid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the grave was finished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They trod with golden sandals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the sacred spot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the brightest, fairest flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang up beneath their tread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor broken turf, nor hillock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did e’er reveal that grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And truthful lips have never said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know where he is laid.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ragged-stocking" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ragged Stocking</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see this ragged stocking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here a rent and there a hole?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each thread of this little stocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is woven around my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you wish to hear my story?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Excuse me, the tears will start,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the sight of this ragged stocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stirs the fountains of my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You say that my home is happy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To me ’tis earth’s fairest place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But its sunshine, peace and gladness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back to this stocking I trace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was once a wretched drunkard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah! you start and say not so;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the dreadful depths I’ve sounded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I speak of what I know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was wild and very reckless</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When I stood on manhood’s brink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, joining with pleasure-seekers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Learned to revel and drink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strong drink is a raging demon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In his hands are shame and woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He mocketh the strength of the mighty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bringeth the strong man low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The light of my home was darkened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the shadow of my sin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And want and woe unbarr’d the door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And suffering entered in.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>The streets were full one Christmas eve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And alive with girls and boys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Merrily looking through window-panes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At bright and beautiful toys.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And throngs of parents came to buy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gifts that children prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And homeward trudged with happy hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The love-light in their eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I thought of my little Charley</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At home in his lowly bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the shadows around his life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in shame I bowed my head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I entered my home a sober man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart by remorse was wrung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there in the chimney corner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This little stocking was hung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Faded and worn as you see it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To me ’tis a precious thing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I never gaze upon it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But unbidden tears will spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I began to search my pockets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But scarcely a dime was there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But scanty as was the pittance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This stocking received its share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For a longing seized upon me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To gladden the heart of my boy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I bought him some cakes and candy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And added a simple toy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I knelt by this little stocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sobbed out an earnest prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And arose with strength to wrestle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And break from the tempter’s snare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this faded, worn-out stocking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So pitiful once to see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Became the wedge that broke my chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a blessing brought to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you marvel then I prize it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When each darn and seam and hole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is linked with my soul’s deliverance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the bondage of the bowl?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And to-night my wife will tell you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though I’ve houses, gold and land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He holds no treasure more precious</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than this stocking in my hand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fatal-pledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fatal Pledge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“Pledge me with wine,” the maiden cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her tones were gay and light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“From others you have turned aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I claim your pledge to-night.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blood rushed to the young man’s cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then left it deadly pale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath the witchery of her smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He felt his courage fail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For many years he’d been a slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the enchanting bowl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until he grasped with eager hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The reins of self-control;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And struggled with his hated thrall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until he rent his chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And strove to stand erect and free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And be a man again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When others came with tempting words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He coldly turned aside.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she who held the sparkling cup</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was his affianced bride;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And like a vision of delight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bright, beautiful and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thoughtless words she wove for him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meshes of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From jeweled hands he took the cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor heard the serpent’s hiss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor saw beneath its ruby glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The deadly adder’s hiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like waves that madly, wildly dash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When dykes are overthrown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The barriers of his soul gave way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each life with wrecks was strewn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she who might have reached her hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To succor and to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon wept in hopeless agony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above a drunkard’s grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And bore through life with bleeding heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Remembrance of that night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she had urged the tempted man</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With wine to make his plight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="christs-entry-into-jerusalem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Christ’s Entry Into Jerusalem</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He had plunged into our sorrows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And our sin had pierced his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As before him loomed death’s shadow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And he knew he must depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they hailed him as a victor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As he into Salem came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the very children shouted</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Loud hosannas to his name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bat he knew behind that triumph,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rising gladly to the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon would come the cries of malice:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crucify him! Crucify!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Onward rode the blessed Saviour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Conscious of the coming strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon to break in storms of hatred</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round his dear, devoted life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ghastly in its fearful anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rose the cross before his eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he saw the joy beyond it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And did all the shame despise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Joy to see the cry of scorning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the ages ever bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cross of shame transfigured</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To a throne of love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Joy to know his soul’s deep travail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should not he a thing in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that joy and peace should blossom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From his agonizing pain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-resurrection-of-jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Resurrection of Jesus</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It was done, the deed of horror;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Christ had died upon the cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And within an upper chamber</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The disciples mourned their loss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Peter’s eyes were full of anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thinking sadly of the trial</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When his boasted self-reliance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ended in his Lord’s denial.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Disappointment, deep and heavy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shrouded every heart with gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the hopes so fondly cherished</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Died around the garden tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they thought with shame and sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How they fled in that dark hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they saw their Lord and Master</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the clutch of Roman power.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We had hoped, they sadly uttered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He would over Israel reign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to-day he lies sepulchred.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And our cherished hopes are vain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the humble home of Mary</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slowly waned the hours away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till she rose to seek the garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the place where Jesus lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not the cross with all its anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could her loving heart restrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the tomb she sought was empty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her heart o’erflowed with pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To embalm my Lord and Master</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To this garden I have strayed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, behold, I miss his body.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I know not where he’s laid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a wave of strange emotion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swept her soul, as angels said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Wherefore do ye seek the living</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Mid the chambers of the dead?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unperceived, her Lord stood by her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silent witness of her grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing on his lips the tidings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sure to bring a glad relief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But her tear-dimmed eyes were holden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When she heard the Master speak;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thought she, only ’tis the gardener</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Asking whom her soul did seek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a sudden flush of gladness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er her grief-worn features spread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she knew the voice of Jesus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All her bitter anguish fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forth she reached hands in rapture.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Touch me not, the Saviour said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take the message to my brethren,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I have risen from the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take them words of joy and comfort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which will all their mourning end;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To their Father and my Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tell them that I will ascend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Brethren, I have seen the Master:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He is risen from the dead.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But like words of idle meaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seemed the glorious words she said.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon they saw the revelation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which would bid their mourning cease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Christ, the risen, stood before them</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breathing words of love and peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Timid men were changed to heroes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weakness turned to wondrous might.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cross became their standard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Luminous with love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From that lonely upper chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Holding up the rugged cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a glad and bold surrender</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They encountered shame and loss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In these days of doubt and error,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the conflict for the right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May our hearts be ever strengthened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the resurrection’s might.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="simons-countrymen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Simon’s Countrymen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They took away his seamless robe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With thorns they crowned his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As harshly, fiercely cried his foes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Barabbas in his stead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The friends he loved unto the end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who shared his daily bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the storms of wrath and hate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forsook their Lord and fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To rescue men from death and sin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He knew the awful cost.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As wearily he bent beneath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The burden of the cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Pilate had decreed his fate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Jews withheld their aid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then Simon, the Cyrenean, came:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On him the cross was laid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not his to smite with cruel scorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor mock the dying one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That helpful man came from the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Kissed by the ardent sun⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The land within whose sheltering arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The infant Jesus lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Herod vainly bared his sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sought the child to slay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Amid the calendar of saints</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We Simon’s name may trace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On history’s page thro’ every age</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He bears an honored place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He little knew that cross would change</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto a throne of light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crown of thorns upon Christ’s brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would be forever bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beneath the shadow of that cross</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brave men wdth outstretched hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have told the wondrous tale of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In distant heathen lands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet within our favored land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where Christian churches rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dark-browed sons of Africa</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are hated and despised.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can they who speak of Christ as King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And glory in his name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget that Simon’s countiymen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still bear a cross of shame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can they forget the cruel scorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Men shower on a race</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who treat the hues their Father gives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As emblems of disgrace?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Will they erect to God their fanes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Christ with honor crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then with cruel weights of pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The African press down?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, Christians, when we faint and bleed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In this our native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reach out to us when peeled, opprest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A kindly helping hand,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And bear aloft that sacred cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bright from the distant years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say for Christ’s and Simon’s sake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll wipe away your tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For years of sorrow, toil and pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll bring you love and light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the name of Christ our Lord</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll make your pathway bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That seamless robe shall yet enfold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The children of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till rich and poor and bond and free</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Christ shall all be one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And for his sake from pride and scorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our spirits shall be free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till through our souls shall sound the words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He did it unto me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="deliverance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Deliverance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Rise up! rise up! Oh Israel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let a spotless lamb be slain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angel of death will o’er you bend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And rend your galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sprinkle its blood upon the posts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And lintels of your door;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the angel sees the crimson spots</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unharmed he will pass you o’er.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gather your flocks and herds to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your children by our side:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A leader from Arabia comes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To be your friend and guide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With girded loins and sandled feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Await the hour of dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Mizraim shall wildly mourn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her first-born and her dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sons of Abraham no more</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall crouch ’neath Pharoah’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trembling with agony and dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’ll thrust you from the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ye shall hold in unborn years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A feast to mark this day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When joyfully the fathers rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And cast their chains away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When crimson tints of morning flush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The golden gates of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or gorgeous hue of even melt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In sombre shades away,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then ye shall to your children teach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meaning of this feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How from the proud oppressor’s hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their fathers were released,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ye shall hold through distant years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This feast with glad accord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And children’s children yet shall learn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To love and trust the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ages have passed since Israel trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In triumph through the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet they hold in memory’s urn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their first great jubilee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Moses led the ransomed hosts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Miriam’s song arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While ruin closed around the path</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of their pursuing foes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall Israel thro’ long varied years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These memories cherish yet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we who lately stood redeemed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our broken chains forget?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Should we forget the wondrous change</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That to our people came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When justice rose and sternly plead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our cause with sword and flame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And led us through the storms of war</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To freedom’s fairer shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When slavery sank beneath a flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose waves were human gore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, youth and maidens of the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rise up with one accord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the name of Christ go forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To battle for the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go forth, but not in crimson fields.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With fratricidal strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the name of Christ go forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For freedom, love and life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go forth to follow in his steps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who came not to destroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till wastes shall blossom as the rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And deserts sing for joy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="simons-feast" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Simon’s Feast</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He is coming, she said, to Simon’s feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The prophet of Galilee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though multitudes around him throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In longing his face to see.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He enters the home as Simon’s guest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But he gives no welcome kiss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He brings no water to bathe his feet⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why is Simon so remiss?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The prophet’s face is bright with love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And mercy beams from his eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He pities the poor, the lame and blind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An outcast, I will draw nigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If a prophet, he will surely know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The guilt of my darkened years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With broken heart I’ll seek his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bathe his feet with my tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No holy rabbi lays his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In blessing on my head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No loving voice floats o’er the path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The downward path I tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unto the Master’s side she pressed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A penitent, frail and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rained on his feet a flood of tears.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then wiped them with her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Over the face of Simon swept</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An air of puzzled surprise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can my guest a holy prophet be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And not this woman despise?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Christ saw the thoughts that Simon’s heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had written upon his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kindly turned to the sinful one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In her sorrow and disgrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where Simon only saw the stains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where sin and shame were rife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Christ looked beneath and saw the germs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a fair, outflowering life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like one who breaks a galling chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sets a prisoner free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He rent her fetters with the words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Thy sins are forgiven thee.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God be praised for the gracious words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which came through that woman’s touch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That souls redeemed thro’ God’s dear Son</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May learn to love him so much;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That souls once red with guilt and crime</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May their crimson stains outgrow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scarlet spots upon their lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Become whiter than driven snow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
