<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="lines-to-hon-thaddeus-stevens" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to Hon. Thaddeus Stevens</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Have the bright and glowing visions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faded from thy longing sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the gorgeous tints of ev'n</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mingling with the shades of night?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Didst thou hope to see thy country</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wearing Justice as a crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Standing foremost ’mid the nations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Worthy of the world's renown?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Didst thou think the grand fruition</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reached the fullness of its time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the crater of God's judgment</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Overflowed the nation's crime?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That thy people, purged by fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would have irur! -nother path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Careful, lest their feet should stumble</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the cinders of God's wrath?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And again the injured negro</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grind the dreadful mills of fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pressing out the fearful vintage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the nation's scorn and hate?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sadder than the crimson shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hung for years around our skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are the hopes so fondly cherished</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fading now before thine eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not in vain has been thy hoping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though thy fair ideals fade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If, like one of God's tall aloes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou art rip’ning in the shade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is light beyond the darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Joy beyond the present pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is hope in God's great justice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the negro's rising brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though before the timid counsels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Truth and Right may seem to fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God hath bathed his sword in judgment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his arm shall yet prevail.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-appeal-to-the-american-people" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Appeal to the American People</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When a dark and fearful strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Raged around the nation's life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the traitor plunged his steel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where your quivering hearts could feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When your cause did need a friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We were faithful to the end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When we stood with bated breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing fiery storms of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the war-cloud, red with wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fiercely swept around our path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did our hearts with terror quail?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or our courage ever fail?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the captive, wanting bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sought our poor and lowly shed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blood-hounds missed his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did we e'er his path betray?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filled we not his heart with trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we shared with him our crust?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With your soldiers, side by side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Helped we turn the battle's tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till o'er ocean, stream and shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waved the rebel flag no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And above the rescued sod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Praises rose to freedom's God,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But to-day the traitor stands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the crimson on his hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scowling 'neath his brow of hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On our weak and desolate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the blood-rust on the knife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aiméd at the nation's life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Asking you to weakly yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All we won upon the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To ignore, on land and flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the offerings of our blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to write above our slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"They have fought and died in vain."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To your manhood we appeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest the traitor's iron heel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grind and trample in the dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All our new-born hope and trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the name of freedom be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Linked with bitter mockery.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="truth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Truth</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A rock, for ages, stern and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood frowning 'gainst the earth and sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never bowed his baughty crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When angry storms around him prest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Morn springing from the arms of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had often bathed his brow with light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kissed the shadows from his face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tender love and gentle grace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Day, pausing at the gates of rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiled on him from the distant West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from her throne the dark-browed Night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Threw round his path her softest light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet he stood unmoved and proud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor love, nor wrath, his spirit bowed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He bared his brow to every blast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scorned the tempest as it passed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One day a tiny, humble seed-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The keenest eye would hardly heed-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fell trembling at that stern rock’s base,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found a lowly hiding place.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A ray of light, and drop of dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came with a message, kind and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They told her of the world so bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its love, its joy, and rosy light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lured her from her hiding place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To gaze upon earth's glorious face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So, peeping timid from the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She clasped the ancient rock around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And climbing up with childish grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She held him with a close embrace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her clinging was a thing of dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where'er she touched a fissure spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he who'd breasted many a storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood frowning there, a mangled form;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So Truth dropped in the silent earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May seem a thing of little worth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till, spreading round some mighty wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It saps its pillars proud and strong.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="death-of-the-old-sea-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Death of the Old Sea King</h2>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas a fearful night—the tempest raved</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With loud and wrathful pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The storm-king harnessed his lightning steeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And rode on the raging tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sea-king lay on his bed of death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale mourners around him bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They knew the wild and fitful life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of their chief was almost spent.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His ear was growing dull in death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the angry storm he heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sluggish blood in the old man's veins</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sudden vigor stirred.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"I hear them call,” cried the dying man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His eyes grew full of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Now bring me here my warrior robes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My sword and armor bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"In the tempest's lull I heard a voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I knew ’t was Odin's call.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Valkyrs are gathering round my bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To lead me unto his hall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Bear me unto my noblest ship,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Light up a funeral pyre;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll walk to the palace of the braves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a path of flame and fire.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O! wild and bright was the stormy light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That flashed from the old man's eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they bore him from the couch of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To his battle-ship to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And lit with many a mournful torch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sea-king's dying bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like a banner fair and bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flames around him spread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they heard no cry of anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break through that fiery wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rigid brow and silent lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was seeking Odin's hall</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through a path of fearful splendor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While strong men held their breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brave old man went boldly forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And calmly talked with death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-the-light-enter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">"Let the Light Enter!"</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Dying Words of Goethe</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Light! more light! the shadows deepen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And my life is ebbing low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Throw the windows widely open!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Light! more light! before I go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Softly let the balmy sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Play around my dying bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E'er the dimly lighted valley</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I with lonely feet shall tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Light! more light! for death is weaving</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shadows round my waning sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I fain would gaze upon him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a stream of earthly light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for greater gifts of genius,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor for thoughts more grandly bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the dying poet whispers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is a prayer for light, more light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heeds he not the gathered laurels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fading slowly from his sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the poet's aspirations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Centre in that prayer for light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed Jesus, when our day dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Melt and vanish from the sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May our dim and longing vision</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then be blessed with light, more light!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="youth-in-heaven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Youth in Heaven</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"In heaven the angels are advancing continually to the spring-time of their youth, so that the oldest angel appears the youngest."</p>
					<cite>Swedenborg</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the length’ning shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Falling coldly round our lives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nearer, nearer through the ages</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life's new spring for them arrives.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the doubt and anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of an old and loveless age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dropping sadly tears of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On life's faded, blotted page.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the mournful dimming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the weary, tear-stained eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That has seen the sad procession</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of its dearest hopes go by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the hopeless clinging</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To life's worn and feeble strands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the last has ceased to tremble</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In our agéd, withered hands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Never lines of light and darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thread the brows forever fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the eldest of the angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seems the youngest brother there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There the stream of life doth never</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cross the mournful plains of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the pearly gates are ever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Closed against his icy breath.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="death-of-zombi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Death of Zombi</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">The Chief of a Negro Kingdom in South America</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Cruel in vengeance, reckless in wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hunters of men bore down on our path;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inhuman and fierce, the offer they gave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was ireedom in death or the life of a slave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cheek of the mother grew pallid with dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the tidings of evil around us were spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And closer and closer she strained to her heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The children she feared they would sever apart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brows of our maidens grew gloomy and sad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hot tears burst from eyes once sparkling and glad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our young men stood ready to join in the fray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That hung as a pall 'round our people that day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our leaders gazed angry and stern on the strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For freedom to them was dearer than life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was mourning at home and death in the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For carnage and famine together did meet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pale lips of hunger were asking for bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While husbands and fathers lay bleeding and dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For days we withstood the tempests of wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That scattered destruction and death in our path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till, broken and peeled, we yielded at last,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glory and strength of our kingdom were past.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Zombi, our leader, and warlike old chief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazed down on our woe with anger and grief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tyrant for him forged fetters in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His freedom-girt limbs had worn their last chain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Defiance and daring still flashed from his eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A freenan he'd lived and free he would die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he climbed to the verge of a dangerous steep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved from its margin to take a last leap;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a fearful death and a bloody grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were dearer to him than the life of a slave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor went he alone to the mystic land-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There were other warriors in his band,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who rushed with him to Death's dark gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All wrapped in the shroud of a mournful fate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to-charles-sumner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to Charles Sumner</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thank God that thou hast spoken</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words earnest, true and brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lightning of thy lips did smite</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fetters of the slaye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I thought the shadows deepened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round the pathway of the slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As one by one his faithful friends</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were dropping in the grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When other hands grew feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And loosed their hold on life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy words rang like a clarion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For freedom's noble strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy words were not soft echoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy tones no syren song;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They fell as battle-axes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon our giant wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God grant thy words of power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May fall as precious seeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That yet shall leaf and blossom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In high and holy deeds.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sir-we-would-see-jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">"Sir, We Would See Jesus"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We would see Jesus; earth is grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flowing out from her Creator's hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like one who tracks his steps with light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His footsteps ever greet our sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The earth below, the sky above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are full of tokens of his love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’mid the fairest scenes we've sighed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our hearts are still unsatisfied.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We would see Jesus; proud and high</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Temples and domes have met our eye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We've gazed upon the glorious thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By earnest hands in marble wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And listened where the lying feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat time to music, soft and sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bow'rs of ease, and halls of pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our yearning hearts ne'er satisfied.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We would see Jesus; we have heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tidings our in most souls have stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, from their chambers full of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The darkened eyes receive the light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, at the music of his voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lame do leap, the dumb rejoice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anxious we 'll wait until we've seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The good and gracious Nazarene.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-bride-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Bride of Death</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They robed her for another groom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her bridal couch, prepared the tomb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the sunny love of her marriage day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A stronger rival had won her away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His wooing was like a stern command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cold was the pressure of his hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through her veins he sent an icy thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With sudden fear her heart stood still;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his dusty palace the bride he led,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her guests were the pale and silent dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No eye flashed forth a loving light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To greet the bride as she came in sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not one reached out a joyous hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To welcome her home to the mystic land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Silent she sat in the death still hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her bridal robe she wore a pall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Instead of orange-blossoms fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Willow and cypress wreathed her hair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though her mother's kiss lay on her cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lips no answering love could speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No air of life stirred in her breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fair young girl was the bride of death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thank-god-for-little-children" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thank God for Little Children</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thank God for little children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bright flowers by earth's wayside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dancing, joyous lifeboats</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon life's stormy tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thank God for little children;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When our skies are cold and gray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They come as sunshine to our hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And charm our cares away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I almost think the angels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who tend life's garden fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drop down the sweet wild blossoms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That bloom around us here,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seems a breath of heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round many a cradle lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every little baby</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brings a message from the skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The humblest home with children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is rich in precious gems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That shame the wealth of monarchs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And pale their diadems.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dear mothers, guard these jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As sacred offerings meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wealth of household treasures</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To lay at Jesus' feet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-fugitive" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Fugitive</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Slowly o'er his darkened features</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stole the warning shades of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we knew the mystic angel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Waited for his parting breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had started for his freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his heart beat firm and high;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But before he won the guerdon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came the message-he must die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He must die when just before him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay the longed-for precious prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hopes that lit him onward</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faded out before his eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For awhile a fearful madness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rested on his weary brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he thought the hateful tyrant</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had rebound his galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then he cried in bitter anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Take me where that good man dwells,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a name to freedom precious</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lingered ’mid life's shattered cells.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But as sunshine gently stealing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the storm-cloud's gloomy track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the tempests of his bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came the light of reason back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, without a sigh or murnur</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the friends he'd left behind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calmly yielded he his spirit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the Father of mankind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thankful that so near to freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He with eager feet had trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere his ransom'd spirit rested</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the bosom of his God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bury-me-in-a-free-land" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bury Me in a Free Land</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Make me a grave where'er you will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a lowly plain, or a lofty hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make it among earth's humblest graves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But not in a land where men are slaves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I could not rest if around my grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard the steps of a trembling slave:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His shadow above my silent tomb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would make it a place of fearful gloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I could not rest if I heard the tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a coffie gang to the shambles led,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the mother's shriek of wild despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise like a curse on the trembling air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I could not sleep if I saw the lash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drinking her blood at each fearful gash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I saw her babes torn from her breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like trembling doves from their parent nest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'd shudder and start if I heard the bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of blood-hounds seizing their human prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I heard the captive plead in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they bound afresh his galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If I saw young girls from their mothers' arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bartered and sold for their youthful charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My eye would flash with a mournful flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My death-paled cheek grow red with shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I would sleep, dear friends, where bloated might</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can rob no man of his dearest right;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My rest shall be calm in any grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where none can call his brother slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I ask no monument, proud and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To arrest the gaze of the passers by;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All that my yearning spirit craves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is bury me not in a land of slaves.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-freedom-bell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Freedom Bell</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ring, aye, ring the freedom bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And let its tones be loud and clear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With glad hosannas let it swell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until it reach the Bondman's ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through pain that wrings the life apart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And spasms full of deadly strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And throes that shake the nation's heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fainting land renews her life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where shrieks and groans distract the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sods grow red with crimson rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ransom'd slave shall kneel in prayer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bury deep his rusty chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where cheeks now pale with sickening dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And brows grow dark with cruel wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall Fredom's banner wide be spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Hope and Peace attend her path.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White-robed and pure her feet shall move</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er rifts of ruin deep and wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hands shall span with lasting love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The chasms rent by hate and pride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where waters, blush'd with human gore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unsullied streams shall purl along;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where crashed the battle's awful roar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall rise the Freeman's joyful song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then ring, aye, ring the freedom bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Proclaiming all the nation free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let earth with sweet thanksgiving swell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heaven catch up the melody.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mary-at-the-feet-of-christ" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mary at the Feet of Christ</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood at Jesus' feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bathed them with her tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While o'er her spirit surg'd</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The guilt and shame of years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though Simon saw the grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon the fair young face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stern man coldly thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For her this is no place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her feet have turned aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From paths of truth and right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Christ a prophet be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He'll spurn her from his sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And silently he watched</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The child of sin and care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Uncoil upon Christ's feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her wealth of raven hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Life! she sadly thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know thy bane and blight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I fain would find</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The path of peace and right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've seen the leper cleansed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I've seen the sick made whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mine's a deeper wound-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It eats into the soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And men have trampled down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The beauty once their prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While women pass me by</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With cold, averted eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now a hope of peace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Steals o'er my weary breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from these lips of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There comes a sense of rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tender, loving Christ</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gazed on her tearful eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then saw on Simon's face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A look of cold surprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Simon," the Saviour said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Thou wast to me remiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I came thy guest, but thou</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Didst give no welcome kiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Thou broughtest from thy fiunt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No water cool and sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she, with many tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath bent and kissed my feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Thou pouredst on my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No oil with kindly care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she anoints my feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wipes them with her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"I know her steps have strayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her sins they many be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she with love hath bound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her erring heart to me.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How sweetly fell his words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon her bruised heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When, like a ghastly train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She felt her sins depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What music heard on earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or rapture moving heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were like those precious words--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Thy sins are all forgiven!"</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-mothers-blessing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Mother's Blessing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, my soul had grown so weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With its many cares opprest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All my heart's high aspirations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Languish'd in a prayer for rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was like a lonely stranger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pining in a distant land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing on her lips a language</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">None around her understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Longing for a close communion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With some kindred mind and heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But whose language is a jargon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Past her skill, and past her art.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God in mercy looked upon me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saw my fainting, pain and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sent to me a blest evangel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the gates of light and life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then my desert leafed and blossom'd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beauty decked its deepest wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hope and joy, peace and blessing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Met me in my first-born child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the tiny hands, so feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brought me smiles and joyful tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lifted from my life the shadows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That had gathered there for years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God, I thank thee for the blessing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That at last has crown'd my life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soothed its weary, lonely anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stay'd its fainting, calm’d its strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gracious Parent! guard and shelter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In thine arms my darling child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till she treads the streets of jasper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Glorified and undefiled.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="vashti" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Vashti</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She leaned her head upon her hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heard the king's decree-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"My lords are feasting in my halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bid Vashti come to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"I've shown the treasures of my house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My costly jewels rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with the glory of her eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No rubies can compare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Adorn'd and crown'd I'd have her come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With all her queenly grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, 'mid my lords and mighty men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unveil her lovely face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Each gem that sparkles in my crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or glitters on my throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grows poor and pale when she appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My beautiful, my own!"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All waiting stood the chamberlains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To hear the Queen's reply,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They saw her cheek grow deathly pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But light flash'd to her eye:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Go, tell the King,” she proudly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"That I am Persia's Queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And by his crowds of merry men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I never will be seen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"I'll take the crown from off my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And tread it ’neath my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before their rude and careless gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My shrinking eyes shall meet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"A queen unveil'd before the crowd!—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon each lip my name!—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why, Persia's women all would blush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And weep for Vashti's shame!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Go back!" she cried, and waived her hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And grief was in her eye:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Go, tell the King,” she sadly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"That I would rather die."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"They brought her message to the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dark flash'd his angry eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’T was as the lightning ere the storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath swept in fury by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then bitterly outspoke the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through purple lips of wrath-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall be done to her who dares</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To cross your monarch's path ?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then spake his wily counsellors-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"O King of this fair land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From distant Ind to Ethiop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All bow to thy command.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"But if, before thy servants' eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This thing they plainly see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Vashti doth not heed thy will</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor yield herself to thee,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"The women, restive 'neath our rule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would learn to scorn our name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from her deed to us would come</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reproach and burning shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Then, gracious King, sign with thy hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This stern but just decree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Vashti lay aside her crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy Queen no more to be.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She heard again the King's command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And left her high estate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong in her earnest womanhood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She calmly met her fate,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And left the palace of the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Proud of her spotless name-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman who could bend to grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But would not bow to shame.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-change" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Change</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The blue sky arching overhead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The green turf 'neath my daily tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All glorified by freedom's light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grow fair and lovely to my sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The very winds that sweep along</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed burdened with a lovely song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor shrieks nor groans of grief or fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Float on their wings and pain my ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more with dull and aching breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Roused by the horn--I rise from rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Content and cheerful with my lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I greet the sun and leave my cot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For darling child and loving wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I toil with newly waken'd life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The light that lingers round her smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shadows from my soul beguile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The pratile of my darling boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fills my old heart with untold joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before his laughter, mirth and song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fade out long scores of grief and wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, never did the world appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So lovely to my eye and ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Till Freedom came, with Joy and Peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bade my hateful bondage cease!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Mother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come nearer to me, husband,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Now the aching leaves my breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my eyes are dim and weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And to-night I fain would rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Clasp me closer to your bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere I calmly sleep in death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With your arms enfolded round me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I would yield my parting breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bring me now my darling baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God's own precious gift of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell her she must meet her mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the brighter world above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When her little feet grow stronger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To walk life's paths untrod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That earnest, true and hopeful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She must lay her hands on God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell my other little children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They must early seek His face;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That His love is a strong tower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And His arms a hiding place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell them—but my voice grows fainter--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Surely, husband, this is death--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell them that their dying mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bless'd them with her latest breath.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="words-for-the-hour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Words for the Hour</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Men of the North! it is no time</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To quit the battle-field;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When danger fronts your rear and van</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It is no time to yield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No time to bend the battle's crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before the wily foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, ostrich-like, to hide your heads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the impending blow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The minions of a baffled wrong</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are marshalling their clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise up! rise up, enchanted North !</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And strike for God and man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is no time for careless ease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No time for idle sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go light the fires in every camp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And solemn sentries keep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The foe ye foiled upon the field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has only changed his base;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New dangers crowd around you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And stare you in the face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Northern men! within your hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is held no common trust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Secure the victories won by blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When treason bit the dust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'T is yours to banish from the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oppression's iron rule;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the ruin'd auction-block</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Erect the common school.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To wipe from labor's branded brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The curse that shamed the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And teach the Freedman how to wield</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ballot in his hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is the nation's golden hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nerve every heart and hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To build on Justice, as a rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The future of the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>True to your trust, oh, never yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One citadel of right!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Truth and Justice clasping hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye yet shall win the fight!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="president-lincolns-proclamation-of-freedom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">President Lincoln's Proclamation of Freedom</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It shall flash through coming ages;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It shall light the distant years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And eyes now dim with sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be clearer through their tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It shall flush the mountain ranges;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the valleys shall grow bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It shall bathe the hills in radiance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And crown their brows with light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It shall flood with golden splendor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the huts of Caroline,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun-kissed brow of labor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With lustre new shall shine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It shall gild the gloomy prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Darken’d by the nation's crime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the dumb and patient millions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wait the better coming time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>By the light that gilds their prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They shall seize its mould’ring key,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the bolts and bars shall vibrate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the triumphs of the free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like the dim and ancient chaos,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shrinking from the dawn of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oppression, grim and hoary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall cower at the sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And her spawn of lies and malice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall grovel in the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While joy shall thrill the bosoms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the merciful and just.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though the morning seemed to linger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er the hill-tops far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the shadows bear the promise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the quickly coming day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon the mists and murky shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be fringed with crimson light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glorious dawn of freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break refulgent on the sight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-babe-smiling-in-her-sleep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Babe Smiling in Her Sleep</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Tell me, did the angels greet thee?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Greet my darling when she smiled ?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did they whisper, softly, gently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pleasant thoughts unto my child ?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Did they whisper, 'mid thy dreaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thoughts that made thy spirit glad ?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the joy-lighted city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the heart is never sad ?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Did they tell thee of the fountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clear as crystal, fair as light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glory-brightened country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never shaded by a night?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of life's pure, pellucid river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tree whose leaves do yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Healing for the wounded nations-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nations smitten, bruised and peeled ?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of the city, ruby-founded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Built on gems of flashing light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Paling all earth's lustrous jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the gates of pearly white ?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Darling, when life's shadows deepen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round thy prison-house of clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May the footsteps of God's angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever linger round thy way.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-artist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Artist</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood before his finished work;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His heart beat warm and high;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they who gazed upon the youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Knew well that he must die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For many days a fever fierce</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had burned into his life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But full of high impassioned art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He bore the fearful strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And wrought in extacy and hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of his brain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He felt the death throes at his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But labored through the pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The statue seemed to glow with life-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A costly work of art;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it he paid the fervent blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From his own eager heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With kindling eye and flushing cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But slowly laboring breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gazed upon his finished work,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then sought his couch of death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the plaudits of the crowd</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came like the south wind's breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dreamy, gifted child of art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had closed his eyes in death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jesus</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come speak to me of Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I love that precious name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who built a throne of power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon a cross of shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unveil to me the beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That glorifies his face-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fullness of the Father</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of his grace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul would run to meet Him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Restrain me not with creeds;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Christ, the hope of glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is what my spirit needs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I need the grand attraction,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That centres 'round the ciosa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To change the gilded things of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To emptiness and dross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My feet are prone to wander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My eyes to turn aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I fain would linger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With Christ the crucified.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I want a faith that's able</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To stand each storm and shock--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A faith forever rooted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Christ the living Rock.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fifteenth-amendment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fifteenth Amendment</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Beneath the burden of our joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tremble, O wires, from East to West!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fashion with words your tongues of fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To tell the nation's high behest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Outstrip the winds, and leave behind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The murmur of the restless waves;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor tarry with your glorious news,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid the ocean's coral caves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ring out! ring out! your sweetest chimes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye bells, that call to prayer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let every heart with gladness thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And songs of joyful triumph raise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shake off the dust, rising race!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crowned as a brother and a man;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Justice to-day asserts her claim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And from thy brow fades out the ban.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With freedom's chrism upon thy head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her precious ensign in thy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go place thy once despised name</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid the noblest of the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O ransomed race! give God the praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who led thee through a crimson sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’mid the storm of fire and blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Turned out the war-cloud's light to thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="retribution" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Retribution</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Judgment slumbered. God in mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stayed his strong avenging hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sent them priests and sent them prophets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But they would not understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Judgment lingered; men, grown bolder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gloried in their shame and guilt;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blood of God's poor childrep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was as water freely spilt.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then arose a cry to heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep and startling, sad and wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sadder than the wail of Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mourning for the first-born child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the sighing of the needy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God at length did bare his hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the footsteps of his judgments</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Echoed through the guilty land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! the terror, grief and anguish;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! the bitter, fearful strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the judgments of Jehovah</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pressed upon the nation's life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the land did reel and tremble</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Neath the terror of his frown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For its guilt lay heavy on it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pressing like an iron crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As a warning to the nations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bathed in blood and swathed in tire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay the once oppressing nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Smitten by God's fearful ire.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sin-of-achan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sin of Achan</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Night closed o'er the battling army,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But it brought them no success;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victory perched not on their banners;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Night was full of weariness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Flushed and hopeful in the morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Turned they from their leader's side:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Routed, smitten and defeated,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Care they back at eventide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then in words of bitter mourning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Joshua's voice soon arose :</span>
				<br/>
				<span>" Tell us, I thou God of Jacob,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why this triumph of our foes?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To his pleading came the answer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why the hosts in fear did yield:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>" 'Twas because a fearful trespass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Mid their tents did lie concealed.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Clear and plain before His vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With whom darkness is as light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay the spoils that guilty Achan</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Covered from his brethren's sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From their tents they purged the evil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That had ruin round them spread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then they won the field of battle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whence they had in terror fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through the track of many ages</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Comes this tale of woe and crime;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us read it as a lesson</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a warning for our time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, for some strong-hearted Joshua !</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faithful to his day and time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who will wholly rid the nation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of her clinging curse and crime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Till she writes on every banner</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All beneath these folds are free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the oppressed and groaning millions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shout the nation's Jubilee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to-miles-o-reiley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to Miles O'Reiley</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You've heard no doubt of Irish bulls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And how they blunder, thick and fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of all the queer and foolish things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'Reiley, you have said the last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You say we brought the rebs supplies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gave them aid amid the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if you must be ruled by rebs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Instead of black you want them white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You blame us that we did not rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And pluck war from a fiery brand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Little Mac said if we did,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He'd put us down with iron hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when we sought to join your ranks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And battle with you, side by side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did men not curl their lips with scorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And thrust us back with hateful pride?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when at last we gained the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did we not firmly, bravely stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And help to turn the tide of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That spread its ruin o'er the land?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We hardly think we're worse than those</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who kindled up this fearful strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because we did not seize the chance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To murder helpless babes and wife,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And had we struck, with vengeful hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The rebel where he most could feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were you not ready to impale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our hearts upon your Northern steel?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O'Reiley, men like you should wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gift of song like some bright crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor worse than ruffians of the ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strike at a man because he's down.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-little-builders" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Little Builders</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ye are builders little builders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not with mortar, brick and stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But your work is far more glorious—-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye are building freedom's throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the ocean never slumbers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Works the coral 'neath the spray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By and by a reef or island</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rears its head to greet the day</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the balmy rains and sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Scatter treasures o’er the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Till a place for human footprints,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crown the little builder's toil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the stately ships sweep o'er them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cresting all the sea with foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little think these patient toilers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are building man a home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you ask me, precious children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How your little hands can build,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That you love the name of freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But your fingers are unskilled?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not on thrones or in proud temples,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Does fair freedom seek her rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, her chosen habitations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are the hearts that love her best.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would you gain the highest freedom?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Live for God and man alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then each heart in freedom's temple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will be like a living stone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fill your minds with useful knowledge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Learn to love the true and right;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus you'll build the throne of freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On a pedestal of light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-child-to-her-blind-father" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Child to Her Blind Father</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dear father, I hear a whisper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It tells me that I must go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my heart returns her answer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In throbbings so faint and low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm sorry to leave you, father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know you will miss me so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the world for you will gather</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A gloomier shade of woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You will miss me, dearest father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the violets wake from sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And timidly from their hedges</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The early snow-drops peep,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I shall not be here to gather</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flowers by stream and dell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bright and beautiful flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dear Father, you love so well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You will miss my voice, dear father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From every earthly tone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the songs that cheered your darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And you'll be so sad and lone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I can scarcely rejoice, dear father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In hope of the brighter land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I know you 'll pine in sadness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And miss my guiding hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You are weeping, dearest father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your sobs are shaking my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but we'll meet again where the shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And night from your eyes shall roll.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then you will see me, father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With visions undimmed and clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your eyes will sparkle with rapture--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You know there's no blindness there.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="light-in-darkness" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Light in Darkness</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We've room to build holy altars</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where our crumbling idols lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We've room for heavenly visions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When our earth dreams fade away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through rifts and rents in our fortune</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We gazed with blinding tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till glimpses of light and beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gilded our gloomy fears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An angel stood at our threshold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We thought him a child of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till we saw the print of his steps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Made lines of living light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We had much the world calls precious;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We had heaps of shining dust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He laid his hand on our treasures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wrote on them moth and rust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But still we had other treasures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That gold was too poor to buy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We clasped them closer and closer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But saw them fade and die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our spirit grew faint and heavy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep shadows lay on our years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till light from the holy city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Streamed through our mist of tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we thanked the chastening angel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who shaded our earthly light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the light and beautiful visions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That broke on our clearer sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our first view of the Holy City</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came through our darken'd years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The songs that lightened our sorrows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We heard ʼmid our night of tears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
