<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-syrophoenician-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Syrophenician Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Joy to my bosom! rest to my fear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Judea's prophet draweth near!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joy to my bosom! peace to my heart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sickness and sorrow before him depart!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Racked with agony and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Writhing, long my child has lain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the prophet draweth near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All our griefs shall disappear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Lord!" she cried with mournful breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Save! Oh, save my child from death!"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But as though she was unheard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus answered not a word.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a purpose nought could move.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the zeal of woman's love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down she knelt in anguish wild—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Master! save, Oh! save my child!"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"'Tis not meet," the Saviour said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Thus to waste the children's bread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am only sent to seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Israel's lost and scattered sheep."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"True," she said, "Oh gracious Lord!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True and faithful is thy word:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the humblest, meanest, may</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Eat the crumbs they cast away."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Woman," said th' astonish'd Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Be it even as thy word!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By thy faith that knows no fail.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast ask'd, and shalt prevail."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Mother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Heard you that shriek? It rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So wildly on the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seemed as if a burden'd heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was breaking in despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Saw you those hands so sadly clasped—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bowed and feeble head—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shuddering of that fragile form—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That look of grief and dread?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Saw you the sad, imploring eye?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its every glance was pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if a storm of agony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were sweeping through the brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She is a mother, pale with fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her boy clings to her side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her kirtle vainly tries</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His trembling form to hide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is not hers, although she bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For him a mother's pains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is not hers, although her blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is coursing through his veins!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is not hers, for cruel hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May rudely tear apart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The only wreath of household love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That binds her breaking heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His love has been a joyous light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That o'er her pathway smiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fountain gushing ever new,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid life's desert wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His lightest word has been a tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of music round her heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their lives a streamlet blent in one-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, Father! must they part?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They tear him from her circling arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her last and fond embrace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! never more may her sad eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gaze on his mournful face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No marvel, then,  these bitter shrieks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Disturb the listening air:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She is a mother, and her heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is breaking in despair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bible-defense-of-slavery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bible Defence of Slavery</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Take sackcloth of the darkest dye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And shroud the pulpits round!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Servants of Him that cannot lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sit mourning on the ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let holy horror blanch each cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale every brow with fears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rocks and stones, if ye could speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye well might melt to tears!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let sorrow breathe in every tone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In every strain ye raise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Insult not God's majestic throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With th' mockery of praise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A "reverend" man, whose light should be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The guide of age and youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brings to the shrine of Slavery</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sacrifice of truth!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the direst wrong by man imposed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Since Sodom's fearful cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The word of life has-been unclosed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To give your God the lie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! when ye pray for heathen lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And plead for their dark shores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember Slavery's cruel hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Make heathens at your doors!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="eliza-harris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eliza Harris</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Like a fawn from the arrow, startled and wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman swept by us, bearing a child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her eye was the night of a settled despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her brow was o'ershaded with anguish and care.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She was nearing the river—in reaching the brink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She heeded no danger, she paused not to think;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she is a mother—her child is a slave—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she'll give him his freedom, or find him a grave!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was a vision to haunt us, that innocent face—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So pale in its aspect, so fair in its grace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the tramp of the horse and the bay of the hound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the fetters that gall, were trailing the ground!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She was nerv'd by despair, and strengthened by woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As she leap'd o'er the chasms that yawn' d from below;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death howl'd in the tempest, and rav'd in the blast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she heard not the sound till the danger was past.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! how shall I speak of my proud country's shame?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the stains on her glory, how give them their name?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How say that her banner in mockery waves—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her "star-spangled banner"—o'er millions of slaves?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How say that the lawless may torture and chase</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman whose crime is the hue of her face?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How the depths of the forest may echo around</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the shrieks of despair, and the bay of the hound?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With her step on the ice, and her arm on her child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The danger was fearful, the pathway was wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, aided by Heaven, she gained a free shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the friends of humanity open'd their door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So fragile and lovely, so fearfully pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a lily that bends to the breath of the gale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save the heave of her breast, and the sway of her hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You'd have thought her a statue of fear and despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In agony close to her bosom she press'd</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The life of her heart, the child of her breast:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! love from its tenderness gathering might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had strengthen'd her soul for the dangers of flight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But she's free!—yes, free from the land where the slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the hand of oppression must rest in the grave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where bondage and torture, where scourges and chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have plac'd on our banner indelible stains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bloodhounds have miss'd the scent of her way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hunter is rifled and foil'd of his prey;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fierce jargon and cursing, with clanking of chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make sounds of strange discord on Liberty's plains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With the rapture of love and fulness of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She plac'd on his brow a mother's fond kiss:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! poverty, danger and death she can brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the child of her love is no longer a slave!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ethiopia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ethiopia</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Yes! Ethiopia yet shall stretch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her bleeding hands abroad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her cry of agony shall reach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The burning throne of God,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tyrant's yoke from off her neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His fetters from her soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty hand of God shall break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And spurn the base control.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Redeemed from dust and freed from chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her sons shall lift their eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From cloud-capt hills and verdant plains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall shouts of triumph rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Upon her dark, despairing brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall play a smile of peace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For God shall bend unto her wo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bid her sorrows cease.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Neath sheltering vines and stately palms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall laughing children play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And aged sires with joyous psalms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall gladden every day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Secure by night, and blest by day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall pass her happy hours;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor human tigers hunt for prey</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within her peaceful bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, Ethiopia! stretch, oh! stretch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy bleeding hands abroad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy cry of agony shall reach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And find redress from God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-drunkards-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Drunkard's Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood beside his dying child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a dim and bloodshot eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'd won him from the haunts of vice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To see his first-born die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He came with a slow and staggering tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A vague, unmeaning stare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, reeling, clasped the clammy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So deathly pale and fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a dark and gloomy chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life ebbing fast away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a coarse and wretched pallet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dying sufferer lay:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A smile of recognition</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lit up the glazing eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"I'm very glad," it seemed to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"You've come to see me die."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That smile reached to his callous heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its sealed fountains stirred;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tried to speak, but on his lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faltered and died each word.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And burning tears like rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Poured down his bloated face.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where guilt, remorse and shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had scathed, and left their trace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"My father!" said the dying child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(His voice was faint and low,)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Oh! clasp me closely to your heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And kiss me ere I go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright angels beckon me away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the holy city fair—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! tell me, father, ere I go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Say, will you meet me there?"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He clasped him to his throbbing heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"I will! I will!" he said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His pleading ceased—the father held</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His first-born and his dead!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The marble brow, with golden curls.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay lifeless on his breast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like sunbeams on the distant clouds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which line the gorgeous west.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-auction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Auction</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sale began—young girls were there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Defenceless in their wretchedness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose stifled sobs of deep despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Revealed their anguish and distress.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And mothers stood with streaming eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And saw their dearest children sold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unheeded rose their bitter cries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While tyrants bartered them for gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And woman, with her love and truth—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For these in sable forms may dwell—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaz'd on the husband of her youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With anguish none may paint or tell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And men, whose sole crime was their hue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The impress of their Maker's hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And frail and shrinking children, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were gathered in that mournful band.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye who have laid your love to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wept above their lifeless clay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Know not the anguish of that breast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose lov'd are rudely torn away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye may not know how desolate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are bosoms rudely forced to part.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how a dull and heavy weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will press the life-drops from the heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-revel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Revel</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"He knoweth not that the dead are there."</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In yonder halls reclining</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are forms surpassing fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brilliant lights are shining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, oh! the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There's music, song and dance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There's banishment of care.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mirth in every glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, oh! the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wine cup's sparkling glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Blends with the viands rare.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's revelry and show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But still, the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Neath that flow of song and mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Runs the current of despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the simple sons of earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Know not the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They'll shudder start and tremble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They'll weep in wild despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the solemn truth breaks on them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the dead, the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="that-blessed-hope" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">That Blessed Hope</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! crush it not, that hope so blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which cheers the fainting heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And points it to the coming rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where sorrow has no part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tear from my heart each worldly prop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unbind each earthly string,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to this blest and glorious hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! let my spirit cling.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It cheered amid the days of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each holy patriarch's breast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was an anchor to their souls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon it let me rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When wandering in dens and caves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In sheep and goat skins dress' d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A peel'd and scatter'd people learned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To know this hope was blest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Help me, amidst this world of strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To long for Christ to reign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That when He brings the crown of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I may that crown obtain!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-christian" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Christian</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The light was faintly streaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within a darkened room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where a woman, faint and feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was sinking to the tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The silver cord was loosened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We knew that she must die;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We read the mournful token</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the dimness of her eye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We read it in the radiance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That lit her pallid cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the quivering of the feeble lip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Too faint its joys to speak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like a child oppressed with slumber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She calmly sank to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With her trust in her Redeemer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her head upon His breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She faded from our vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like a thing of love and light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we feel she lives for ever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A spirit pure and bright.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="report" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Report</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I heard, my young friend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You were seeking a wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman to make</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your companion for life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, if you are seeking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A wife for your youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let this be your aim, then—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seek a woman of truth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She may not have talents,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With greatness combined,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her gifts may be humble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of person and mind:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if she be constant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gentle, and true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Believe me my friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She 's the woman for you!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! wed not for beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though fair is the prize;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It may pall when you grasp it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And fade in your eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let gold not allure you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let wealth not attract;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a house full of treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A woman may lack.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let her habits be frugal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her hands not afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To work in her household</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or follow her trade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let her language be modest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her actions discreet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her manners refined,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And free from deceit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now if such you should find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In your journey through life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just open your mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And make her your wife.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="advice-to-the-girls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Advice to the Girls</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, do not blush! I only heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You had a mind to marry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought I'd speak a friendly word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So just one moment tarry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wed not a man whose merit lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In things of outward show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In raven hair or flashing eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That please your fancy so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But marry one who 's good and kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And free from all pretence;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who, if without a gifted mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At least has common sense.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="saved-by-faith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Saved by Faith</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"She said, if I may not touch his clothes, I shall be whole."</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Life to her no brightness brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale and striken was her brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till a bright and joyous thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lit the darkness of her woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long had sickness on her preyed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strength from every nerve had gone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Skill and art could give no aid:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thus her weary life passed on.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like a sad and mournful dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Daily felt she life depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hourly knew the vital stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Left the fountain of her heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He who lull'd the storm to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cleans'd the lepers, raised the dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst a crowd around him press' d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Near that suffering one did tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nerv'd by blended hope and fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reasoned thus her anxious heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"If to touch him I draw near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All my suffering shall depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"While the crowd around him stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I will touch," the sufferer said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forth she reached her timid hand—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As she touched her sickness fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>" Who hath touched me?" Jesus cried;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Virtue from my body 's gone."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the crowd a voice replied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Why inquire in such a throng?"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Faint with fear through every limb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet too grateful to deny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tremblingly she knelt to him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Lord!" she answered it was I!"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Kindly, gently, Jesus said—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words like balm unto her soul—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Peace upon thy life be shed!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Child! thy faith has made thee whole!"</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="died-of-starvation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Died of Starvation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They forced him into prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because he begged for bread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"My wife is starving—dying!"</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain the poor man plead.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They forced him into prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong bars enclosed the walls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the rich and proud were feasting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within their sumptuous halls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He'd striven long with anguish.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had wrestled with despair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his weary heart was breaking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Neath its crushing load of care.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he prayed them in that prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Oh, let me seek my wife!"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he knew that want was feeding</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the remnant of her life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That night his wife lay moaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon her bed in pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunger gnawing at her vitals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fever scorching through her brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She wondered at his tarrying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was not wont to stay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Mid hunger, pain and watching,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The moments waned away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sadly crouching by the embers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her famished children lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she longed to gaze upon them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As her spirit passed away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the embers were too feeble.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She could not see each face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So she clasped her arms around them—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Twas their mother's last embrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They loosed him from his prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a felon from his chain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though his strength was hunger bitten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He sought his home again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just as her spirit linger'd</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On Time's receding shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She heard his welcome footstep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the threshold of the door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was faint and spirit-broken.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, rousing from despair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He clasped her icy fingers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As she breathed her dying prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a gentle smile and blessing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her spirit winged its flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the morn, in all its glory.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bathed the world in dazzling light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There was weeping, bitter weeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the chamber of the dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For well the stricken husband knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She had died for want of bread.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-mothers-heroism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Mother's Heroism</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">When the noble mother of Lovejoy heard of her son's death, she said, "It is well! I had rather he should die so than desert his principles."</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The murmurs of a distant strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fell on a mother's ear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her son had yielded up his life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid scenes of wrath and fear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They told her how he'd spent his breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In pleading for the dumb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how the glorious martyr wreath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her child had nobly won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They told her of his courage high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid brutal force and might;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How he had nerved himself to die</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In battl'ng tor the right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seemed as if a fearful storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swept wildly round her soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A moment, and her fragile form</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bent 'neath its fierce control.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From lip and brow the color fled—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But light flashed to her eye:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"'T is well! 'tis well!" the mother said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"That thus my child should die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"'T is well that, to his latest breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He plead for liberty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Truth nerved him for the hour of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And taught him how to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"It taught him how to cast aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Earth's honors and renown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To trample on her fame and pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And win a martyr's crown."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fugitives-wife" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fugitive's Wife</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It was my sad and weary lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To toil in slavery;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But one thing cheered my lowly cot—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My husband was with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One evening, as our children played</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around our cabin door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I noticed on his brow a shade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I'd never seen before;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in his eyes a gloomy night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of anguish and despair;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gazed upon their troubled light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To read the meaning there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He strained me to his heaving heart —</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My own beat wild with fear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I knew not, but I sadly felt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There must be evil near.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He vainly' strove to east aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tears that fell like rain:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too frail, indeed, is manly pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To strive with grief and pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again he clasped me to his breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And said that we must part:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tried to speak—but, oh! it seemed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An arrow reached my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Bear not!" I cried, "unto your grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The yoke you've borne from birth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer live a helpless slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meanest thing on earth!"</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-contrast" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Contrast</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They scorned her for her sinning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spoke harshly of her fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor lent the hand of mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To break her hated thrall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The dews of meek repentance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood in her downcast eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would no one heed her anguish?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All pass her coldly by?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the cold, averted glances</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of each reproachful eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She turned aside, heart-broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laid her down to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And where was he, who sullied</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her once unspotted name;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who lured her from life's brightness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To agony and shame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who left her on life's billows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A wrecked and ruined thing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who brought the winter of despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon Hope's blooming spring?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through the halls of wealth and fashion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In gaiety and pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was leading to the altar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A fair and lovely bride!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None scorned him for his sinning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Few saw it through his gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His crimes were only foibles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And these were gently told.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Before him rose a vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A maid of beauty rare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then a pale, heart-broken woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Next came a sad procession,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With many a sob and tear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A widow' d, childless mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Totter'd by an humble bier.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The vision quickly faded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sad, unwelcome sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his lip forgot its laughter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his eye its careless light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment, and the flood-gates</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of memory opened wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And remorseful recollection</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flowed like a lava tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That widow's wail of anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seemed strangely 'blending there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mid the soft lights floated</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That image of despair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-prodigals-return" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Prodigal's Return</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He came—a wanderer; years of sin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had blanched his blooming cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Telling a tale of strife within.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That words might vainly speak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His feet were bare, his garments torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His brow was deathly white;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His heart was bleeding, crushed and worn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His soul had felt a blight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His father saw him; pity swept</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And yearn' d through every vein;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He ran and clasp'd his child, and wept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Murm'ring, "He lives again!"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Father, I've come, but not to claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Aught from thy love or grace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I come, a child of guilt and shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To beg a servant's place."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Enough! enough!" the father said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Bring robes of princely cost!"—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The past with all its shadows fled.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For now was found the lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Put shoes upon my poor child's feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With rings his hand adorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid my house his coming greet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With music, dance and song."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! Saviour, mid this world of strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When wayward here we roam.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conduct us to the paths of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And guide us safely home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then in thy holy courts above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy praise our lips shall sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While angels join our song of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That we, the lost are found!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="evas-farewell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eva's Farewell</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Farewell, father! I am a dying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Going to the "glory land,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the sun is ever shining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the zephyr's ever bland.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the living fountains flowing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quench the pining spirit's thirst;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the tree of life is growing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the crystal fountains burst.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Father! hear that music holy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floating from the spirit land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the pearly gates of glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Radiant angels waiting stand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Father! kiss your dearest Eva,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Press her cold and clammy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere the glittering hosts receive her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Welcome to their cherub band.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-tennessee-hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Tennessee Hero</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">"He had heard his comrades plotting to obtain their liberty, and rather than betray them he received 750 lashes and died."</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>He stood before the savage throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The base and coward crew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tameless light flashed from his eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His heart beat firm and true.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was the hero of his band.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The noblest of them all;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though fetters galled his weary limbs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His spirit spurned their thrall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And towered, in its manly might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the murderous crew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! liberty had nerved his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And every pulse beat true.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Now tell us," said the savage troop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"And life thy gain shall be!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who are the men that plotting, say—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'They must and will be free!'"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, could you have seen the hero then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As his lofty soul arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his dauntless eyes defiance flashed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On his mean and craven foes!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"I know the men who would be free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are the heroes of your land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But death and torture I defy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere I betray that band.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And what! oh, what is life to me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath your base control?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay! do your worst. Ye have no chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To bind my free-born soul."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They brought the hateful lash and scourge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With murder in each eye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a solemn vow was on his lips—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He had resolved to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, rather than betray his trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He'd meet a death of pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas sweeter far to meet it thus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than wear a treason stain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like storms of wrath, of hate and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blows rained thick and fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the monarch soul kept true</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till the gates of life were past.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the martyr spirit fled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the throne of God on high.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And showed his gaping wounds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before the unslumbering eye.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="free-labor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Free Labor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I wear an easy garment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er it no toiling slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wept tears of hopeless anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In his passage to the grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from its ample folds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall rise no cry to God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon its warp and woof shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No stain of tears and blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, lightly shall it press my form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unladened with a sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not 'mid its rustling hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some sad despairing cry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This fabric is too light to bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The weight of bondsmen's tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not in its texture trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The agony of years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Too light to bear a smother'd sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From some lorn woman's heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose only wreath of household love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is rudely torn apart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then lightly shall it press my form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unburden'd by a sigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from its seams and folds shall rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No voice to pierce the sky,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And witness at the throne of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In language deep and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I have nerv'd Oppression's hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For deeds of guilt and wrong.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At the Portals of the Future,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Full of madness, guilt and gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood the hateful form of Slavery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crying, Give, Oh! give me room—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Room to smite the earth with cursing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Room to scatter, rend and slay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the trembling mother's bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Room to tear her child away;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Room to trample on the manhood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the country far and wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Room to spread o'er every Eden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slavery's scorching lava-tide</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pale and trembling stood the Future,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quailing 'neath his frown of hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he grasped with bloody clutches</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The great keys of Doom and Fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In his hand he held a banner</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All festooned with blood and tears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas a fearful ensign, woven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the grief and wrong of years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On his brow he wore a helmet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Decked with strange and cruel art;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every jewel was a life-drop</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wrung from some poor broken heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though her cheek was pale and anxious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet, with look and brow sublime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the pale and trembling Future</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood the Crisis of our time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from many a throbbing bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came the words in fear and gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us, Oh! thou coming Crisis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What shall be our country's doom?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall the wings of dark destruction</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brood and hover o'er our land.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till we trace the steps of ruin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By their blight, from strand to strand?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a look and voice prophetic</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spake the solemn Crisis then:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have only mapped the future</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the erring sons of men.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If ye strive for Truth and Justice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If ye battle for the Right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye shall lay your hands all strengthened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On God's robe of love and light;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if ye trample on His children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To his ear will float each groan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jar the cords that bind them to Him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they'll vibrate at his throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the land that forges fetters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Binds the weak and poor in chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must in blood or tears of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wash away her guilty stains.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dismissal-of-tyng" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Dismissal of Tyng</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"We have but three words to say, 'served him right.'"</p>
					<cite>Church Journal (Episcopal)</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Served him right! How could he dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To touch the idol of our day?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What if its shrine be red with blood?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why, let him turn his eyes away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who dares dispute our right to bind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With galling chains the weak and poor?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To starve and crush the deathless mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or hunt the slave from door to door?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who dares dispute our right to sell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mother from her weeping child?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hush with ruthless stripes and blows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her shrieks and sobs of anguish wild?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Tis right to plead for heathen lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To send the Bible to their shores.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then to make, for power and pelf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A race of heathens at our doors.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What holy horror filled our hearts—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It shook our church from dome to nave—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our cheeks grew pale with pious dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To hear him breathe the name of slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Upon our Zion, fair and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His words fell like a fearful blight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We turned him from our saintly fold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And this we did to "serve him right."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-mother-a-tale-of-the-ohio" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Mother</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Tale of the Ohio</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I have but four, the treasures of my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They lay like doves around my heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tremble lest some cruel hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should tear my household wreaths apart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My baby girl, with childish glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Looks curious in my anxious eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She little knows that for her sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep shadows round my spirit lie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My playful boys could I forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My home might seem a joyous spot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with their sunshine mirth I blend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The darkness of their future lot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thou my babe, my darling one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My last, my loved, my precious child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! when I think upon thy doom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart grows faint and then throbs wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Ohio's bridged and spanned with ice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The northern star is shining bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll take the nestlings of my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And search for freedom by its light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Winter and night were on the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And feebly moaned the shivering trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sigh of winter seemed to run</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through every murmur of the breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She fled, and with her children all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She reached the stream and crossed it o'er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright visions of deliverance came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like dreams of plenty to the poor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dreams! vain dreams, heroic mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Give all thy hopes and struggles o'er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pursuer is on thy track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the hunter at thy door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Judea's refuge cities had power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To shelter, shield and save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E'en Rome had altars; 'neath whose shade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might crouch the wan and weary slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Ohio had no sacred fane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To human rights so consecrate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where thou may'st shield thy hapless ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From their darkly gathering fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, said the mournful mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If Ohio cannot save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will do a deed for freedom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She shall find each child a grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I will save my precious children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From their darkly threatened doom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will hew their path to freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the portals of the tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment in the sunlight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She held a glimmering knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The next moment she had bathed it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the crimson fount of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They snatched away the fatal knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her boys shrieked wild with dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The baby girl was pale and cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They raised it up, the child was dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sends this deed of fearful daring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through my country's heart no thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do the icy hands of slavery</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Every pure emotion chill?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! if there is any honor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Truth or justice in the land.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will ye not, as men and Christians,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the side of freedom stand?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rizpah-the-daughter-of-ai" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rizpah, the Daughter of Ai</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Tidings! sad tidings for the daughter of Ai,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are bearing her prince and loved away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Destruction falls like a mournful pall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the fallen house of ill-fated Saul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Rizpah hears that her loved must die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she hears it all with a tearless eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And clasping her hand with grief and dread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She meekly bows her queenly head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blood has left her blanching cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her quivering lips refuse to speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! grief like hers has learned no tone—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A world of grief is all its own.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the deed is done, and the hand is stay'd</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That havoc among the brethren made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Rizpah takes her lowly seat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To watch the princely dead at her feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The jackall crept out with a stealthy tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To batten and feast on the noble dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vulture bore down with a heavy wing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dip his beak in life's stagnant spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hyena heard the jackall's howl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he bounded forth with a sullen growl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Rizpah's shriek rose on the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a tone from the caverns of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sprang from her sad and lowly seat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a moment her heart forgot to beat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blood rushed up to her marble cheek .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a flash to her eye so sad and meek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The vulture paused in his downward flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As she raised her form to its queenly height.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hyena's eye had a horrid glare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he turned again to his desert lair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The jackall slunk back with a quickened tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his cowardly search of Rizpah's dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unsated he turned from the noble prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Subdued by a glance of the daughter of Ai.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh grief! that a mother's heart should know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a weary weight of consuming wo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For seldom if ever earth has known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such love as the daughter of Aihath known.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ruth-and-naomi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ruth and Naomi</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Turn my daughters, full of wo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is my heart so sad and lone?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leave me children—I would go</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To my loved and distant home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From my bosom death has torn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Husband, children, all my stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Left me not a single one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For my life's declining day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Want and wo surround my way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grief and famine where I tread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my native land they say</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God is giving Jacob bread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Naomi ceased, her daughters wept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their yearning hearts were filled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Falling upon her withered neck.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their grief in tears distill'd.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like rain upon a blighted tree, ]</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tears of Qrpah fell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissing the pale and quivering lip.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She breathed her sad farewell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Ruth stood up, on her brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There lay a heavenly calm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from her lips came, soft and low.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words like a holy charm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I will not leave thee, on thy brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are lines of sorrow, age and care;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy form is bent, thy step is slow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy bosom stricken, lone and sear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! when thy heart and home were glad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I freely shared thy joyous lot;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now that heart is lone and sad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cease to entreat—I'll leave thee not.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! if a lofty palace proud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy future home shall be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where sycophants around thee crowd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I'll share that home with thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if on earth the humblest spot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy future home shall prove;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll bring into thy lonely lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wealth of woman's love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go where thou wilt, my steps are there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our path in life is one;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast no lot I will not share,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Till life itself be done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My country and my home for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I freely, willingly resign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy people shall my people be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy God he shall be mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, mother dear, entreat me not</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To turn from following thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart is nerved to share thy lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whatever that may be.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
