<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="eliza-harris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eliza Harris</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Like a fawn from the arrow, startled and wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman swept by us, bearing a child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her eye was the night of a settled despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her brow was o’ershaded with anguish and care.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She was nearing the river⁠—in reaching the brink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She heeded no danger, she paused not to think;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she is a mother⁠—her child is a slave⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she’ll give him his freedom, or find him a grave!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was a vision to haunt us, that innocent face⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So pale in its aspect, so fair in its grace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the tramp of the horse and the bay of the hound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the fetters that gall, were trailing the ground!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She was nerv’d by despair, and strengthened by woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As she leap’d o’er the chasms that yawn’d from below;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death howl’d in the tempest, and rav’d in the blast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she heard not the sound till the danger was past.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! how shall I speak of my proud country’s shame?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the stains on her glory, how give them their name?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How say that her banner in mockery waves⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her “star-spangled banner”⁠—o’er millions of slaves?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How say that the lawless may torture and chase</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman whose crime is the hue of her face?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How the depths of the forest may echo around</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the shrieks of despair, and the bay of the hound?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With her step on the ice, and her arm on her child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The danger was fearful, the pathway was wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, aided by Heaven, she gained a free shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the friends of humanity open’d their door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So fragile and lovely, so fearfully pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a lily that bends to the breath of the gale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save the heave of her breast, and the sway of her hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’d have thought her a statue of fear and despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In agony close to her bosom she press’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The life of her heart, the child of her breast:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! love from its tenderness gathering might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had strengthen’d her soul for the dangers of flight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But she’s free!⁠—yes, free from the land where the slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the hand of oppression must rest in the grave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where bondage and torture, where scourges and chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have plac’d on our banner indelible stains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bloodhounds have miss’d the scent of her way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hunter is rifled and foil’d of his prey;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fierce jargon and cursing, with clanking of chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make sounds of strange discord on Liberty’s plains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With the rapture of love and fullness of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She plac’d on his brow a mother’s fond kiss:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! poverty, danger and death she can brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the child of her love is no longer a slave!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-soul" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Soul</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Bring forth the balance, let the weight be gold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'd know the worth of a deathless soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring rubies and gems from every mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the wealth of ocean, land and clime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bring the joys of the green, green earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its playful smiles and careless mirth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dews of youth and flushes of health—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring! Oh, bring! the wide world’s wealth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bring the rich, rare pearls of thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the depths of knowledge brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All that human ken may know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Searching earth and heaven o'er.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bring the fairest rolls of fame—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rolls unwritten with a deed of shame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honor’s guerdon, victory’s crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Robes of pride, wreaths of renown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We've brought the wealth of ev'ry mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We've ransacked ocean, land and clime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And caught the joyous smiles away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the prattling babe to the sire gray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We've wrought the names of the noble dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With those who in their footsteps tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here are wreaths of pride and gems of thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the battle-field and study brought.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heap high the gems, pile up the gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For heavy’s the weight of a deathless soul—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make room for all the wealth of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its honors, joys, and careless mirth,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Leave me a niche for the rolls of fame—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, precious, indeed, is a spotless name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the robes, the wreaths, and gems of thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let an empty space in the seales be sought.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With care we've adjusted balance and scale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Futile our efforts we've seen them fail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lighter than dust is the wealth of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weighed in the scales with immortal worth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Could we drag the sun from his golden car,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lay in this balance with ev'ry star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twould darken the day and obscure the night—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the weight of the balance would still be light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-syrophoenician-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Syrophenician Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Joy to my bosom! rest to my fear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Judea’s prophet draweth near!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joy to my bosom! peace to my heart!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sickness and sorrow before him depart!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rack’d with agony and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Writhing, long my child has lain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the prophet draweth near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All our griefs shall disappear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Lord!” she cried with mournful breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Save! Oh, save my child from death!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But as though she was unheard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jesus answered not a word.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a purpose nought could move,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the zeal of woman’s love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down she knelt in anguish wild⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Master! save, Oh! save my child!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“ ’Tis not meet,” the Saviour said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Thus to waste the children’s bread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am only sent to seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Israel’s lost and scattered sheep.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“True,” she said, “Oh gracious Lord!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True and faithful is thy word:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the humblest, meanest, may</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eat the crumbs they cast away.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Woman,” said th’ astonish’d Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Be it even as thy word!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By thy faith that knows no fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast ask’d, and shalt prevail.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Mother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Heard you that shriek? It rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So wildly on the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seemed as if a burden’d heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was breaking in despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Saw you those hands so sadly clasped⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bowed and feeble head⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shuddering of that fragile form⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That look of grief and dread?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Saw you the sad, imploring eye?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its every glance was pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if a storm of agony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were sweeping through the brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She is a mother, pale with fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her boy clings to her side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her kirtle vainly tries</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His trembling form to hide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is not hers, although she bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For him a mother’s pains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is not hers, although her blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is coursing through his veins!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is not hers, for cruel hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May rudely tear apart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The only wreath of household love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That binds her breaking heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His love has been a joyous light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That o’er her pathway smiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fountain gushing ever new,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid life’s desert wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His lightest word has been a tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of music round her heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their lives a streamlet blent in one⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, Father! must they part?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They tear him from her circling arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her last and fond embrace:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! never more may her sad eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gaze on his mournful face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No marvel, then, these bitter shrieks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Disturb the listening air:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She is a mother, and her heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is breaking in despair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bible-defense-of-slavery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bible Defence of Slavery</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Take sackcloth of the darkest dye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And shroud the pulpits round!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Servants of Him that cannot lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sit mourning on the ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let holy horror blanch each cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale every brow with fears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rocks and stones, if ye could speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye well might melt to tears!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let sorrow breathe in every tone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In every strain ye raise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Insult not God’s majestic throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With th’ mockery of praise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A “reverend” man, whose light should be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The guide of age and youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brings to the shrine of Slavery</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sacrifice of truth!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the direst wrong by man imposed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Since Sodom’s fearful cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The word of life has been unclosed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To give your God the lie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! when ye pray for heathen lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And plead for their dark shores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember Slavery’s cruel hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Make heathens at your doors!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ethiopia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ethiopia</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Yes! Ethiopia yet shall stretch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her bleeding hands abroad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her cry of agony shall reach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The burning throne of God,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tyrant’s yoke from off her neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His fetters from her soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty hand of God shall break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And spurn the base control.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Redeemed from dust and freed from chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her sons shall lift their eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From cloud-capt hills and verdant plains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall shouts of triumph rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Upon her dark, despairing brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall play a smile of peace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For God shall bend unto her woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bid her sorrows cease.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Neath sheltering vines and stately palms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall laughing children play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And aged sires with joyous psalms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall gladden every day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Secure by night, and blest by day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall pass her happy hours;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor human tigers hunt for prey</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within her peaceful bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, Ethiopia! stretch, oh! stretch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy bleeding hands abroad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy cry of agony shall reach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And find redress from God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-drunkards-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Drunkard’s Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood beside his dying child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a dim and bloodshot eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’d won him from the haunts of vice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To see his first-born die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He came with a slow and staggering tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A vague, unmeaning stare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, reeling, clasped the clammy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So deathly pale and fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a dark and gloomy chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life ebbing fast away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a coarse and wretched pallet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dying sufferer lay:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A smile of recognition</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lit up the glazing eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I’m very glad,” it seemed to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“You’ve come to see me die.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That smile reached to his callous heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its sealèd fountains stirred;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tried to speak, but on his lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faltered and died each word.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And burning tears like rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Poured down his bloated face.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where guilt, remorse and shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had scathed, and left their trace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“My father!” said the dying child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(His voice was faint and low,)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Oh! clasp me closely to your heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And kiss me ere I go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright angels beckon me away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the holy city fair⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! tell me, father, ere I go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Say, will you meet me there?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He clasped him to his throbbing heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I will! I will!” he said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His pleading ceased⁠—the father held</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His first-born and his dead!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The marble brow, with golden curls.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay lifeless on his breast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like sunbeams on the distant clouds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which line the gorgeous west.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-auction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Auction</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sale began⁠—young girls were there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Defenceless in their wretchedness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose stifled sobs of deep despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Revealed their anguish and distress.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And mothers stood with streaming eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And saw their dearest children sold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unheeded rose their bitter cries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While tyrants bartered them for gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And woman, with her love and truth⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For these in sable forms may dwell⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaz’d on the husband of her youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With anguish none may paint or tell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And men, whose sole crime was their hue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The impress of their Maker’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And frail and shrinking children, too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were gathered in that mournful band.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye who have laid your love to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wept above their lifeless clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Know not the anguish of that breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose lov’d are rudely torn away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye may not know how desolate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are bosoms rudely forced to part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how a dull and heavy weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will press the life-drops from the heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-revel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Revel</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“He knoweth not that the dead are there.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In yonder halls reclining</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are forms surpassing fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brilliant lights are shining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, oh! the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s music, song and dance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There’s banishment of care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mirth in every glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, oh! the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wine cup’s sparkling glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Blends with the viands rare.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s revelry and show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But still, the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Neath that flow of song and mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Runs the current of despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the simple sons of earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Know not the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They’ll shudder start and tremble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They’ll weep in wild despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the solemn truth breaks on them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the dead, the dead are there!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="that-blessed-hope" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">That Blessed Hope</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! crush it not, that hope so blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which cheers the fainting heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And points it to the coming rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where sorrow has no part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tear from my heart each worldly prop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unbind each earthly string,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to this blest and glorious hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! let my spirit cling.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It cheer’d amid the days of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each holy patriarch’s breast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was an anchor to their souls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon it let me rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When wandering in dens and caves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In sheep and goat skins dress’ d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A peel’d and scatter’d people learned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To know this hope was blest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Help me, amidst this world of strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To long for Christ to reign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That when He brings the crown of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I may that crown obtain!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-christian" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Christian</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The light was faintly streaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within a darkened room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where a woman, faint and feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was sinking to the tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The silver cord was loosened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We knew that she must die;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We read the mournful token</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the dimness of her eye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We read it in the radiance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That lit her pallid cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the quivering of the feeble lip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Too faint its joys to speak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like a child oppressed with slumber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She calmly sank to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With her trust in her Redeemer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her head upon His breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She faded from our vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like a thing of love and light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we feel she lives for ever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A spirit pure and bright.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="report" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Report</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I heard, my young friend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You were seeking a wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman to make</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your companion for life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, if you are seeking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A wife for your youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let this be your aim, then⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seek a woman of truth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She may not have talents,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With greatness combined,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her gifts may be humble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of person and mind:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if she be constant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gentle, and true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Believe me my friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She’s the woman for you!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! wed not for beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though fair is the prize;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It may pall when you grasp it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And fade in your eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let gold not allure you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let wealth not attract;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a house full of treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A woman may lack.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let her habits be frugal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her hands not afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To work in her household</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or follow her trade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let her language be modest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her actions discreet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her manners refined,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And free from deceit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now if such you should find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In your journey through life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just open your mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And make her your wife.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="advice-to-the-girls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Advice to the Girls</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, do not blush! I only heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You had a mind to marry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought I’d speak a friendly word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So just one moment tarry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wed not a man whose merit lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In things of outward show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In raven hair or flashing eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That please your fancy so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But marry one who’s good and kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And free from all pretence;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who, if without a gifted mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At least has common sense.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="saved-by-faith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Saved by Faith</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“She said, if I may not touch his clothes, I shall be whole.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Life to her no brightness brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale and stricken was her brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till a bright and joyous thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lit the darkness of her woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long had sickness on her preyed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strength from every nerve had gone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Skill and art could give no aid:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thus her weary life passed on.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like a sad and mournful dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Daily felt she life depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hourly knew the vital stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Left the fountain of her heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He who lull’d the storm to rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cleans’d the lepers, raised the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst a crowd around him press’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Near that suffering one did tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nerv’d by blended hope and fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reasoned thus her anxious heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“If to touch him I draw near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All my suffering shall depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“While the crowd around him stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I will touch,” the sufferer said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forth she reached her timid hand⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As she touched her sickness fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Who hath touched me?” Jesus cried;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Virtue from my body’s gone.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the crowd a voice replied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Why inquire in such a throng?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Faint with fear through every limb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet too grateful to deny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tremblingly she knelt to him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Lord!” she answered, “it was I!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Kindly, gently, Jesus said⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words like balm unto her soul⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Peace upon thy life be shed!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Child! thy faith has made thee whole!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="died-of-starvation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Died of Starvation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They forced him into prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because he begged for bread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“My wife is starving⁠—dying!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain the poor man plead.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They forced him into prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong bars enclosed the walls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the rich and proud were feasting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within their sumptuous halls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He’d striven long with anguish.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had wrestled with despair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his weary heart was breaking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Neath its crushing load of care.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he prayed them in that prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Oh, let me seek my wife!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he knew that want was feeding</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the remnant of her life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That night his wife lay moaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon her bed in pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunger gnawing at her vitals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fever scorching through her brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She wondered at his tarrying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was not wont to stay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mid hunger, pain and watching,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The moments waned away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sadly crouching by the embers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her famished children lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she longed to gaze upon them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As her spirit passed away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the embers were too feeble.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She could not see each face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So she clasped her arms around them⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Twas their mother’s last embrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They loosed him from his prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a felon from his chain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though his strength was hunger bitten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He sought his home again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just as her spirit linger’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On Time’s receding shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She heard his welcome footstep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the threshold of the door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was faint and spirit-broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, rousing from despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He clasped her icy fingers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As she breathed her dying prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a gentle smile and blessing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her spirit winged its flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the morn, in all its glory.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bathed the world in dazzling light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There was weeping, bitter weeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the chamber of the dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For well the stricken husband knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She had died for want of bread.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-mothers-heroism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Mother’s Heroism</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">When the noble mother of <b>Lovejoy</b> heard of her son’s death, she said, “It is well! I had rather he should die so than desert his principles.”</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The murmurs of a distant strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fell on a mother’s ear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her son had yielded up his life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid scenes of wrath and fear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They told her how he’d spent his breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In pleading for the dumb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how the glorious martyr wreath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her child had nobly won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They told her of his courage high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid brutal force and might;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How he had nerved himself to die</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In battling for the right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seemed as if a fearful storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swept wildly round her soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A moment, and her fragile form</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bent ’neath its fierce control.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From lip and brow the color fled⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But light flashed to her eye:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“ ’Tis well! ’tis well!” the mother said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“That thus my child should die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“ ’Tis well that, to his latest breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He plead for liberty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Truth nerved him for the hour of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And taught him how to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“It taught him how to cast aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Earth’s honors and renown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To trample on her fame and pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And win a martyr’s crown.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fugitives-wife" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fugitive’s Wife</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It was my sad and weary lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To toil in slavery;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But one thing cheered my lowly cot⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My husband was with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One evening, as our children played</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around our cabin door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I noticed on his brow a shade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’d never seen before;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in his eyes a gloomy night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of anguish and despair;⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gazed upon their troubled light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To read the meaning there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He strained me to his heaving heart⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My own beat wild with fear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I knew not, but I sadly felt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There must be evil near.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He vainly strove to cast aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tears that fell like rain:⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too frail, indeed, is manly pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To strive with grief and pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again he clasped me to his breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And said that we must part:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tried to speak⁠—but, oh! it seemed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An arrow reached my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Bear not!” I cried, “unto your grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The yoke you’ve borne from birth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer live a helpless slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meanest thing on earth!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-contrast" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Contrast</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They scorned her for her sinning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spoke harshly of her fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor lent the hand of mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To break her hated thrall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The dews of meek repentance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood in her downcast eye:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would no one heed her anguish?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All pass her coldly by?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the cold, averted glances</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of each reproachful eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She turned aside, heart-broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laid her down to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And where was he, who sullied</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her once unspotted name;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who lured her from life’s brightness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To agony and shame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who left her on life’s billows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A wrecked and ruined thing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who brought the winter of despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon Hope’s blooming spring?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through the halls of wealth and fashion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In gaiety and pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was leading to the altar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A fair and lovely bride!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None scorned him for his sinning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Few saw it through his gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His crimes were only foibles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And these were gently told.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Before him rose a vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A maid of beauty rare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then a pale, heart-broken woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Next came a sad procession,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With many a sob and tear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A widow’d, childless mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Totter’d by an humble bier.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The vision quickly faded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sad, unwelcome sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his lip forgot its laughter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his eye its careless light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment, and the flood-gates</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of memory opened wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And remorseful recollection</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flowed like a lava tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That widow’s wail of anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seemed strangely blending there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mid the soft lights floated</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That image of despair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-prodigals-return" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Prodigal’s Return</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He came⁠—a wanderer; years of sin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had blanched his blooming cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Telling a tale of strife within,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That words might vainly speak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His feet were bare, his garments torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His brow was deathly white;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His heart was bleeding, crushed and worn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His soul had felt a blight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His father saw him; pity swept</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And yearn’ d through every vein;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He ran and clasp’d his child, and wept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Murm’ring, “He lives again!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Father, I’ve come, but not to claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Aught from thy love or grace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I come, a child of guilt and shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To beg a servant’s place.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Enough! enough!” the father said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Bring robes of princely cost!”⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The past with all its shadows fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For now was found the lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Put shoes upon my poor child’s feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With rings his hand adorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid my house his coming greet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With music, dance and song.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! Saviour, mid this world of strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When wayward here we roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conduct us to the paths of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And guide us safely home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then in thy holy courts above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy praise our lips shall sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While angels join our song of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That we, the lost are found!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="evas-farewell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eva’s Farewell</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Farewell, father! I am a dying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Going to the “glory land,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the sun is ever shining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the zephyr’s ever bland.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the living fountains flowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quench the pining spirit’s thirst;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the tree of life is growing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the crystal fountains burst.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Father! hear that music holy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floating from the spirit land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the pearly gates of glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Radiant angels waiting stand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Father! kiss your dearest Eva,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Press her cold and clammy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere the glittering hosts receive her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Welcome to their cherub band.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="be-active" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Be Active</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Onward, onward, sons of freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the great and glorious strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve a high and holy mission</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the battle field of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See oppression's feet of iron</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grind a brother to the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from bleeding heart and bosom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gapeth many a fearful wound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sit not down with idle pity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gazing on his mighty wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hurl the bloated tyrant from him—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Say my brother, oh, be strong!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See that sad, despairing mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clasp her burning brow in pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay your hand upon her fetters—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rend, oh! rend her galling chain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here’s a pale and trembling maiden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brutal arms around her thrown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Christian father, save, oh! save her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the love you bear your own!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yearly lay a hundred thousand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">New-born babes on Moloch’s shrine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crush these gory, reeking altars—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Christians, let this work be thine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the Southern roses blossom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weary lives go out in pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dragging to death’s shadowy portals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slavery’s heavy galling chain,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Men of every clime and nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Every faith, and sect, and creed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay aside your idle jangling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come and staunch the wounds that bleed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On my people’s blighted bosom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mountain weights of sorrow lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stop not now to ask the question,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who shall roll the stone away?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Set to work the moral forces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That are yours of church and state;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Teach them how to war and battle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Gainst oppression, wrong, and hate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! be faithful! Oh! be valiant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Trusting not in human might;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Know that in the darkest conflict,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God is on the side of right!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lessons-of-the-street" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lessons of the Street</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Walking through life’s dusty highways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid the tramp of hurrying feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We may gather much instruction</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the “lessons of the street.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now a beggar sues for succor—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nay, repress that look of pride!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Neath that wrecked and shattered body</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doth a human soul reside.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here's a brow that seems to tell you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I am prematurely old;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have spent my youthful vigor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In an eager search for gold.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the cheek of yon pale student</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is a divorcement most unkind—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis the cruel separation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of his body from his mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here a painted child of shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flaunts in costly robes of sin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a reckless mirth that cannot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hide the smouldering fires within.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And here's a face, so calm and mild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid the restless din and strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems to say, in every line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I'm aiming for a higher life.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just then I caught a mournful glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As on the human river rushed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A harrowing look, which plainly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“The music of my life is hushed.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look on that face, so deathly pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its bloom and flush forever fled:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I started, for it seemed to bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A message to the silent dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thus hurries on the stream of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To empty where Death's waters meet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We pass along, we pass away—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thus end the lessons of the street.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gone-to-god" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Gone to God”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Finished now the weary throbbing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a bosom calmed to rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laid aside the heavy sorrows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That for years upon it prest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All the thirst for pure affection,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the hunger of the heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the vain and tearful cryings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All forever now depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Clasp the pale and faded fingers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er the cold and lifeless form;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shall never abrink and shiver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Homeless in the dark and storm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Press the death-weights calmly, gently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er the eyelids in their sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tears shall never tremble from them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They shall never wake to weep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Close the silent lips together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lips once parted with a sigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through their sealed, moveless portals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ne’er shall float a bitter cry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bring no bright and blooming flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let no mournful tears be shed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Funeral flowers, tears of sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are for the cherished dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She has been a lonely wanderer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drifting on the world’s highway;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grasping with her woman’s nature,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Feeble reeds to be her stay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God is witness to the anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a heart that’s all alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Floating blindly on life’s current,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only bound unto His throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But o’er such, Death’s solemn angel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Broodeth with a sheltering wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the hopeless hand ’s grown weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cease around earth’s toys to cling.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then kind hands will clasp them gently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the still, unaching breast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Softly treading by, they'll whisper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the lone one gone to rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-union-savers-of-cleveland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Union Savers of Cleveland</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Men of Cleveland, had a vulture</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sought a timid dove for prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would you not, with human pity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drive the gory bird away?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Had you seen a feeble lambkin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shrinking from a wolf so bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would ye not to shield the trembler,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In your arms have made its fold?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when she, a hunted sister,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stretched her hands that ye might save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Colder far than Zembla’s regions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was the answer that ye gave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the Union’s bloody altar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was your hapless victim laid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mercy, truth and justice shuddered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But your hands would give no aid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ye sent her back to torture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Robbed of freedom and of right.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thrust the wretched, captive stranger.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back to slavery’s gloomy night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Back where brutal men may trample,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On her honor and her fame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And unto her lips so dusky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Press the cup of woe and shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is blood upon your city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dark and dismal is the stain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your hands would fail to cleanse it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though Lake Erie ye should drain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a curse upon your Union,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fearful sounds are in the air;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if thunderbolts were framing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Answers to the bondsman’s prayer,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye may offer human victims,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like the heathen priests of old;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may barter manly honor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the Union and for gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But ye can not stay the whirlwind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the storm begins to break;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And our God doth rise in judgment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the poor and needy’s sake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, your sin-cursed, guilty Union,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be shaken to its base,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till ye learn that simple justice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is the right of every race.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bury-me-in-a-free-land" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bury Me in a Free Land</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Make me a grave where’er you will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a lowly plain, or a lofty hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make it among earth’s humblest graves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But not in a land where men are slaves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I could not rest if around my grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard the steps of a trembling slave:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His shadow above my silent tomb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would make it a place of fearful gloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I could not rest if I heard the tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a coffle gang to the shambles led,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the mother’s shriek of wild despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise like a curse on the trembling air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I could not sleep if I saw the lash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drinking her blood at each fearful gash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I saw her babes torn from her breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like trembling doves from their parent nest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’d shudder and start if I heard the bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of bloodhounds seizing their human prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I heard the captive plead in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they bound afresh his galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If I saw young girls from their mothers’ arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bartered and sold for their youthful charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My eye would flash with a mournful flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My death-paled cheek grow red with shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I would sleep, dear friends, where bloated might</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can rob no man of his dearest right;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My rest shall be calm in any grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where none can call his brother slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I ask no monument, proud and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To arrest the gaze of the passers by;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All that my yearning spirit craves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is bury me not in a land of slaves.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="moses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Moses</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Story of the Nile</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="moses-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Parting</p>
				</hgroup>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Kind and gracious princess, more than friend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ve come to thank thee for thy goodness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to breathe into thy generous ears</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My last and sad farewell. I go to join</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fortunes of my race, and to put aside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All other bright advantages, save</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The approval of my conscience and the meed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of rightly doing.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>What means, my son, this strange election?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What wild chimera floats across thy mind?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What sudden impulse moves thy soul? Thou who</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hast only trod the court of kings, why seek</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Instead the paths of labor? Thou, whose limbs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have known no other garb than that which well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Befits our kingly state, why rather choose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The badge of servitude and toil?</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Let me tell thee, gracious princess; ’tis no</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sudden freak nor impulse wild that moves my mind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I feel an earnest purpose binding all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My soul unto a strong resolve, which bids</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me put aside all other ends and aims,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until the hour shall come when God⁠—the God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our fathers loved and worshipped⁠—shall break our chains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lead our willing feet to freedom.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Listen to me, Moses: thou art young,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the warm blood of youth flushes thy veins</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like generous wine; thou wearest thy manhood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like a crown; but what king e’er cast</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His diadem in the dust, to be trampled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down by every careless foot? Thou hast</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bright dreams and glowing hopes; could’st thou not live</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Them out as well beneath the radiance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of our throne as in the shadow of those</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bondage-darkened huts?</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Within those darkened huts my mother plies her tasks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My father bends to unrequited toil;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bitter tears moisten the bread my brethren eat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when I gaze upon their cruel wrongs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The very purple on my limbs seems drenched</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With blood, the warm blood of my own kindred race;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then thy richest viands pall upon my taste,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And discord jars in every tone of song.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cannot live in pleasure while they faint</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In pain.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>How like a dream the past floats back: it seems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But yesterday when I lay tossing upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My couch of pain, a torpor creeping through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each nerve, a fever coursing through my veins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there I lay, dreaming of lilies fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of lotus flowers and past delights, and all</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bright, glad hopes, that give to early life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its glow and flush; and thus day after day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dragged its slow length along, until, one morn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The breath of lilies, fainting on the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Floated into my room, and then I longed once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To gaze upon the Nile, as on the face</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a familiar friend, whose absence long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had made a mournful void within the heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I summoned to my side my maids, and bade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Them place my sandals on my feet, and lead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me to the Nile, where I might bathe my weary</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Limbs within the cooling flood, and gather</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Healing from the sacred stream.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sought my favorite haunt, and, bathing, found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>New tides of vigor coursing through my veins.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Refreshed, I sat me down to weave a crown of lotus leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lilies fair, and while I sat in a sweet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Revery, dreaming of life and hope, I saw</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A little wicker-basket hidden among</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flags and lilies of the Nile, and I called</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My maidens and said, “Nillias and Osiria</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bring me that little ark which floats beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stream.” They ran and brought me a precious burden.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Twas an ark woven with rushes and daubed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With slime, and in it lay a sleeping child;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His little hand amid his clustering curls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a bright flush upon his glowing cheek.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He wakened with a smile, and reached out his hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To meet the welcome of the mother’s kiss,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When strange faces met his gaze, and he drew back</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a grieved, wondering look, while disappointment</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shook the quivering lip that missed the mother’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wonted kiss, and the babe lifted his voice and wept.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then my heart yearned towards him, and I resolved</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That I would brave my father’s wrath and save</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The child; but while I stood gazing upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His wondrous beauty, I saw beside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A Hebrew girl, her eyes bent on me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With an eager, questioning look, and drawing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Near, she timidly said, “shall I call a nurse?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I bade her go; she soon returned, and with her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came a woman of the Hebrew race, whose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sad, sweet, serious eyes seemed overflowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With a strange and sudden joy. I placed the babe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within her arms and said, “Nurse this child for me;”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the babe nestled there like one at home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While o’er the dimples of his face rippled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The brightest, sweetest smiles, and I was well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Content to leave him in her care; and well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Did she perform her part. When many days had</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passed she brought the child unto the palace;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And one morning, while I sat toying with</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His curls and listening to the prattle of his</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Untrained lips, my father, proud and stately,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Saw me bending o’er the child and said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Charmian, whose child is this? who of my lords</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Calls himself father to this goodly child?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He surely must be a happy man.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Then I said, “Father, he is mine. He is a</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hebrew child that I have saved from death.” He</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suddenly recoiled, as if an adder</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had stung him, and said, “Charmian, take that</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Child hence. How darest thou bring a member</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that mean and servile race within my doors?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, rather let me send for Nechos, whose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ready sword shall rid me of his hateful presence.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then kneeling at his feet, and catching</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hold of his royal robes, I said, “Not so,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh! honored father, he is mine; I snatched</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him from the hungry jaws of death, and foiled</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The greedy crocodile of his prey; he has</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eaten bread within thy palace walls, and thy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Salt lies upon his fresh young lips; he has</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="dl2">
							<span>A claim upon thy mercy.”</span>
							<span>“Charmian,” he said,</span>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I have decreed that every man child of that</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hated race shall die. The oracles have said</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pyramids shall wane before their shadow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And from them a star shall rise whose light shall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spread over earth a baleful glow; and this is why</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I root them from the land; their strength is weakness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To my throne. I shut them from the light lest they</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bring darkness to my kingdom. Now, Charmian,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me up the child, and let him die.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then clasping the child closer to my heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I said, “the pathway to his life is through my own;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Around that life I throw my heart, a wall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of living, loving clay.” Dark as the thunder</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clouds of distant lands became my father’s brow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And his eyes flashed with the fierce lightnings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his wrath; but while I plead, with eager</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eyes upturned, I saw a sudden change come</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over him; his eyes beamed with unwonted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tenderness, and he said, “Charmian, arise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy prayer is granted; just then thy dead mother</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came to thine eyes, and the light of Asenath</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Broke over thy face. Asenath was the light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of my home; the star that faded out too</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suddenly from my dwelling, and left my life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To darkness, grief and pain, and for her sake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not thine, I’ll spare the child.” And thus I saved</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thee twice⁠—once from the angry sword and once</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the devouring flood. Moses, thou art</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Doubly mine; as such I claimed thee then, as such</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I claim thee now. I’ve nursed no other child</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon my knee, and pressed upon no other</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lips the sweetest kisses of my love, and now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With rash and careless hand, thou dost thrust aside that love.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There was a painful silence, a silence</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So hushed and still that you might have almost</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heard the hurried breathing of one and the quick.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Throbbing of the other’s heart: for Moses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He was slow of speech, but she was eloquent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With words of tenderness and love, and had breathed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her full heart into her lips; but there was</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Firmness in the young man’s choice, and he beat back</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The opposition of her lips with the calm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grandeur of his will, and again he essayed to speak.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Moses</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Gracious lady, thou remembrest well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Hebrew nurse to whom thou gavest thy foundling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That woman was my mother; from her lips I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Learned the grand traditions of our race that float,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all their weird and solemn beauty, around</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our wrecked and blighted fortunes. How oft!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With kindling eye and glowing cheek, forgetful</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the present pain, she would lead us through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The distant past: the past, hallowed by deeds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of holy faith and lofty sacrifice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How she would tell us of Abraham,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The father of our race, that he dwelt in Ur;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the Chaldees, and when the Chaldean king</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had called him to his sacrifice, that he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had turned from his dumb idols to the living</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God, and wandered out from kindred, home and race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Led by his faith in God alone; and she would</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tell us⁠—(we were three,) my brother Aaron,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Hebrew girl thou sentest to call a nurse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I, her last, her loved and precious child;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She would tell us that one day our father</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Abraham heard a voice, bidding him offer</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up in sacrifice the only son of his</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beautiful and beloved Sarah; that the father’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heart shrank not before the bitter test of faith,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But he resolved to give his son to God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As a burnt offering upon Moriah’s mount;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That the uplifted knife glittered in the morning</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sun, when, sweeter than the music of a thousand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Harps, he heard a voice bidding him stay his hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And spare the child; and how his faith, like gold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tried in the fiercest fire, shone brighter through</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its fearful test. And then she would tell us</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a promise, handed down from sire to son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That God, the God our fathers loved and worshiped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would break our chains, and bring to us a great</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deliverance; that we should dwell in peace</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath our vines and palms, our flocks and herds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Increase, and joyful children crowd our streets;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then she would lift her eyes unto the far</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off hills and tell us of the patriarchs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of our line, who sleep in distant graves within</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That promised land; and now I feel the hour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Draws near which brings deliverance to our race.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Princess</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>These are but the dreams of thy young fancy;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cannot comprehend thy choice. I have heard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of men who have waded through slaughter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To a throne; of proud ambitions, struggles</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fierce and wild for some imagined good; of men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who have even cut in twain the crimson threads</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That lay between them and a throne; but I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never heard of men resigning ease for toil,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The splendor of a palace for the squalor</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a hut, and casting down a diadem</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="dl2">
							<span>To wear a servile badge.</span>
							<span>Sadly she gazed</span>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon the fair young face lit with its lofty</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Faith and high resolves⁠—the dark prophetic eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which seemed to look beyond the present pain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto the future greatness of his race.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As she stood before him in the warm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loveliness of her ripened womanhood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her languid eyes glowed with unwonted fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the bright tropical blood sent its quick</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flushes o’er the olive of her cheek, on which</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still lay the lingering roses of her girlhood.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grief, wonder, and surprise flickered like shadows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O’er her face as she stood slowly crushing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With unconscious hand the golden tassels</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of her crimson robe. She had known life only</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By its brightness, and could not comprehend</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The grandeur of the young man’s choice; but she</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Felt her admiration glow before the earnest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Faith that tore their lives apart and led him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To another destiny. She had hoped to see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crown of Egypt on his brow, the sacred</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leopard skin adorn his shoulders, and his seat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The throne of the proud Pharaoh’s; but now her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dream had faded out and left a bitter pang</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of anguish in its stead. And thus they parted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She to brood in silence o’er her pain, and he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To take his mission from the hands of God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lead his captive race to freedom.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With silent lips but aching heart she bowed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her queenly head and let him pass, and he</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Went forth to share the fortune of his race,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Esteeming that as better far than pleasures</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bought by sin and gilded o’er with vice.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he had chosen well, for on his brow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>God poured the chrism of a holy work.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thus anointed he has stood a bright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ensample through the changing centuries of time.</span>
					</p>
				</div>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a great change from the splendor, light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pleasure of a palace to the lowly huts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Of those who sighed because of cruel bondage.</span>
						<span>As he passed</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the outer courts of that proud palace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He paused a moment just to gaze upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scenes ’mid which his early life had passed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pleasant haunts amid the fairest flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fountains tossing on the air their silver spray⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The statues breathing music soft and low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To greet the first faint flushes of the morn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The obelisks that rose in lofty grandeur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From their stony beds⁠—the sphinxes gaunt and grim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With unsolved riddles on their lips⁠—and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bright creation’s painters art and sculptors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skill had gathered in those regal halls, where mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dance, and revelry, and song had chased</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With careless feet the bright and fleeting hours.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was leaving all; but no regrets came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a shadow o’er his mind, for he had felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The quickening of a higher life, as if his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soul had wings and he were conscious of their growth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet there was a tender light in those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark eyes which looked their parting on the scenes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of beauty, where his life had been a joyous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dream enchanted with delight; but he trampled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each vain regret as on a vanquished foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And went forth a strong man, girded with lofty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Purposes and earnest faith. He journeyed on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till palaces and domes and lofty fanes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gorgeous temples faded from his sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lowly homes of Goshen came in view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There he saw the women of his race kneading</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their tale of bricks; the sons of Abraham</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crouching beneath their heavy burdens. He saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The increasing pallor on his sister’s cheek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deepening shadows on his mother’s brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The restless light that glowed in Aaron’s eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a hidden fire were smouldering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his brain; and bending o’er his mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a tender, loving way, he said, “Mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve come to share the fortunes of my race⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dwell within these lowly huts⁠—to wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The badge of servitude and toil, and eat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bitter bread of penury and pain.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden light beamed from his mother’s eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she said, “How’s this, my son? but yesterday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two Hebrews, journeying from On to Goshen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told us they had passed the temple of the Sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But dared not enter, only they had heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it was a great day in On; that thou hadst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forsworn thy kindred, tribe and race; hadst bowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy knee to Egypt’s vain and heathen worship;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hadst denied the God of Abraham, of Isaac,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of Jacob, and from henceforth wouldst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be engrafted in Pharaoh’s regal line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When thy father Amram heard the cruel news</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He bowed his head upon his staff and wept.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I had stronger faith than that. By faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hid thee when the bloody hands of Pharaoh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were searching ’mid our quivering heart strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dooming our sons to death; by faith I wove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rushes of thine ark and laid thee ’mid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags and lilies of the Nile, and saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answer to that faith when Pharaoh’s daughter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Placed thee in my arms, and bade me nurse the child</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For her; and by that faith sustained, I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As idle words the cruel news that stabbed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy father like a sword.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Hebrews did not hear aright; last week</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a great day in On, from Esoan’s gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the mighty sea; the princes, lords</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chamberlains of Egypt were assembled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The temple of the sun was opened. Isis</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Osiris were unveiled before the people;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Apis and Orus were crowned with flowers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Golden censers breathed their fragrance on the air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sacrifice was smoking on the altar;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first fruits of the Nile lay on the tables</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the sun: the music rose in lofty swells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then sank in cadences so soft and low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the air grew tremulous with rapture.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The priests of On were there, with sacred palms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within their hands and lotus leaves upon their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brows; Pharaoh and his daughter sat waiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their regal chairs; all were ready to hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me bind my soul to Egypt, and to swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Allegiance to her gods. The priests of On</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drew near to lay their hands upon my head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bid me swear, ‘Now, by Osiris, judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the dead, and Isis, mother of us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All,’ that henceforth I’d forswear my kindred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tribe and race; would have no other gods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than those of Egypt; would be engrafted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into Pharaoh’s royal line, and be called</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The son of Pharaoh’s daughter. Then, mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, I lived the past again. Again I sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside thee, my lips apart with childish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wonder, my eager eyes uplifted to thy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing face, and my young soul gathering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspiration from thy words. Again I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee tell the grand traditions of our race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blessed hopes and glorious promises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That weave their golden threads among the sombre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tissues of our lives, and shimmer still amid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gloom and shadows of our lot. Again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard thee tell of Abraham, with his constant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith and earnest trust in God, unto whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The promise came that in his seed should all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nations of the earth be blessed. Of Isaac,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessing with disappointed lips his first born son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From whom the birthright had departed. Of Jacob,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his warm affections and his devious ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flying berore the wrath of Esau; how he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slumbered in the wild, and saw amid his dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ladder reaching to the sky, on which God’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Angels did descend, and waking, with a solemn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awe o’ershadowing all, his soul exclaimed, ‘How</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dreadful is this place. Lo! God is here, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew it not.’ Of Joseph, once a mighty prince</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within this land, who shrank in holy horror</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the soft white hand that beckoned him to sin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose heart, amid the pleasures, pomp and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Egypt, was ever faithful to his race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when his life was trembling on its frailest chord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He turned his dying eyes to Canaan, and made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brethren swear that they would make his grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the patriarchs of his line, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Machpelah’s cave, where Abraham bowed before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sons of Heth, and bought a place to lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His loved and cherished dead, was dearer to his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dying heart than the proudest tomb amid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The princely dead of Egypt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Then, like the angels, mother dear, who met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our father Jacob on his way, thy words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came back as messengers of light to guide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My steps, and I refused to be called the son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh’s daughter. I saw the priests of On</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow pale with fear, an ashen terror creeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er the princess’ face, while Pharaoh’s brow grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darker than the purple of his cloak. But I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endured, as seeing him who hides his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the brightness of his glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus I left the pomp and pride of Egypt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cast my lot among the people of my race.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">Flight Into Midian</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>The love of Moses for his race soon found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stern expression. Pharaoh was building</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pyramid; ambitious, cold and proud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He scrupled not at means to gain his ends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he feared the growing power of Israel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stained his hands in children’s blood, and held</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A carnival of death in Goshen; but now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wished to hand his name and memory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down unto the distant ages, and instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lading that memory with the precious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fragrance of the kindest deeds and words, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Essayed to write it out in stone, as cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>And hard, and heartless as himself.</span>
						<span>And Israel was</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fated race to whom the cruel tasks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were given. Day after day a cry of wrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And anguish, some dark deed of woe and crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came to the ear of Moses, and he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“These reports are ever harrowing my soul;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go unto the fields where Pharaoh’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Officers exact their labors, and see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If these things be so⁠—if they smite the feeble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At their tasks, and goad the aged on to toils</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond their strength⁠–⁠if neither age nor sex</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is spared the cruel smiting of their rods.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>And Moses went to see his brethren.</span>
						<span>’Twas eventide,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the laborers were wending their way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto their lowly huts. ’Twas a sad sight⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The young girls walked without the bounding steps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of youth, with faces prematurely old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if the rosy hopes and sunny promises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life had never flushed their cheeks with girlish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy; and there were men whose faces seemed to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We bear our lot in hopeless pain, we’ve bent unto</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our burdens until our shoulders fit them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as slaves we crouch beneath our servitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And toil. But there were men whose souls were cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In firmer moulds, men with dark secretive eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which seemed to say, to-day we bide our time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hide our wrath in every nerve, and only</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wait a fitting hour to strike the hands that press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us down. Then came the officers of Pharaoh;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They trod as lords, their faces flushed with pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And insolence, watching the laborers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sadly wending their way from toil to rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Moses’ heart swelled with a mighty pain; sadly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Musing, he sought a path that led him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the busy haunts of men. But even there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cruel wrong trod in his footsteps; he heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heavy groan, then harsh and bitter words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, looking back, he saw an officer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh smiting with rough and cruel hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An aged man. Then Moses’ wrath o’erflowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lips, and every nerve did tremble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a sense of wrong, and bounding forth he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried unto the smiter, “Stay thy hand; seest thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That aged man? His head is whiter than our</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Desert sands; his limbs refuse to do thy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bidding because thy cruel tasks have drained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away their strength.” The Egyptian raised his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sudden wonder; who was this that dared dispute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His power? Only a Hebrew youth. His</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud lip curved in scornful anger, and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waved a menace with his hand, saying, “back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thy task base slave, nor dare resist the will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh.” Then Moses’ wrath o’erleaped the bounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of prudence, and with a heavy blow he felled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smiter to the earth, and Israel had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One tyrant less. Moses saw the mortal paleness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chase the flushes from the Egyptian’s face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whitening lips that breathed no more defiance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the relaxing tension of the well knit limbs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he knew that he was dead, he hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him in the sand and left him to his rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">Another day Moses walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abroad, and saw two brethren striving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For mastery; and then his heart grew full</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tender pity. They were brethren, sharers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a common wrong: should not their wrongs more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Closely bind their hearts, and union, not division,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be their strength? And feeling thus, he said, “ye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are brethren, wherefore do ye strive together?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they threw back his words in angry tones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked if he had come to judge them, and would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mete to them the fate of the Egyptian?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses knew the sand had failed to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His secret, that his life no more was safe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Goshen, and he fled unto the deserts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Arabia and became a shepherd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the priest of Midian.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Men grow strong in action, but in solitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their thoughts are ripened. Like one who cuts away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bridge on which he has walked in safety</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the other side, so Moses cut off all retreat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Pharaoh’s throne, and did choose the calling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most hateful to an Egyptian; he became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shepherd, and led his flocks and herds amid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solitudes and wilds of Midian, where he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nursed in silent loneliness his earnest faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In God and a constant love for kindred, tribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And race. Years stole o’er him, but they took</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No atom from his strength, nor laid one heavy weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his shoulders. The down upon his face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ripened to a heavy beard; the fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That glowed within his youthful eye had deepened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a calm and steady light, and yet his heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was just as faithful to his race as when he had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood in Pharaoh’s courts and bade farewell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto his daughter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a look of patient waiting on his face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A calm, grand patience, like one who had lifted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up his eyes to God and seen, with meekened face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wings of some great destiny o’ershadowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All his life with strange and solemn glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the hour came when he must pass from thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To action⁠—when the hope of many years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must reach its grand fruition, and Israel’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great deliverance dawn. It happened thus:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day, as Moses led his flocks, he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fertile spot skirted by desert sands⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pleasant place for flocks and herds to nip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tender grass and rest within its shady nooks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as he paused and turned, he saw a bush with fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aglow; from root to stem a lambent flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sent up its jets and sprays of purest light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet the bush, with leaves uncrisped, uncurled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was just as green and fresh as if the breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of early spring were kissing every leaf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses said I’ll turn aside to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This sight, and as he turned he heard a voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bidding him lay his sandals by, for Lo! he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood on holy ground. Then Moses bowed his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his staff and spread his mantle o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His face, lest he should see the dreadful majesty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of God; and there, upon that lonely spot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Horeb’s mount, his shrinking hands received</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The burden of his God, which bade him go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Egypt’s guilty king, and bid him let</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The oppressed go free.</span>
						<span>Commissioned thus</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gathered up his flocks and herds and sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tents of Jethro, and said “I pray thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me go and see if yet my kindred live;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Jethro bade him go in peace, nor sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To throw himself across the purpose of his soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet there was a tender parting in that home;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were moistened eyes, and quivering lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lingering claspings of the parting hand, as Jethro</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his daughters stood within the light of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clean morn, and gave to Moses and his wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sons their holy wishes and their sad farewells.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he had been a son and brother in that home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since first with manly courtesy he had filled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The empty pails of Reuel’s daughters, and found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shelter ’neath his tent when flying from</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The wrath of Pharaoh.</span>
						<span>They journeyed on,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moses, Zipporah and sons, she looking back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tender love upon the home she had left,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all its precious memories crowding round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her heart, and he with eager eyes tracking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His path across the desert, longing once more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the long-lost faces of his distant home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loving eyes so wont to sun him with their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Welcome, and the aged hands that laid upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His youthful head their parting blessing. They</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Journeyed on till morning’s flush and noonday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendor glided into the softened, mellowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light of eve, and the purple mists were deep’ning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the cliffs and hills, when Horeb, dual</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crowned, arose before him; and there he met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brother Aaron, sent by God to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His spokesman and to bear him company</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Pharaoh. Tender and joyous was their greeting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They talked of home and friends until the lighter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ripple of their thoughts in deeper channels flowed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then they talked of Israel’s bondage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the great deliverance about to dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the fortunes of their race; and Moses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told him of the burning bush, and how the message</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his God was trembling on his lips. And thus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They talked until the risen moon had veiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mount in soft and silvery light; and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They rested until morn, and rising up, refreshed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sleep, pursued their way until they reached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The land of Goshen, and gathered up the elders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their race, and told them of the message</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their Father’s God. Then eager lips caught up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The words of hope and passed the joyful news</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around, and all the people bowed their heads</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifted up their hearts in thankfulness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i14">That same day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moses sought an audience with the king. He found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him on his throne surrounded by the princes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his court, who bowed in lowly homage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At his feet. And Pharaoh heard with curving lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flushing cheek the message of the Hebrew’s God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then asked in cold and scornful tones, “Has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Israel a God, and if so where has he dwelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ages? As the highest priest of Egypt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have prayed to Isis, and the Nile has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Overflowed her banks and filled the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With plenty, but these poor slaves have cried unto</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their God, then crept in want and sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To their graves. Surely Mizraim’s God is strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Israel’s is weak; then wherefore should</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heed his voice, or at his bidding break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A single yoke?” Thus reasoned that proud king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned a deafened ear unto the words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Moses and bis brother, and yet he felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strangely awed before their presence, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stood as men who felt the grandeur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their mission, and thought not of themselves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But of their message.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On the next day Pharaoh called a council</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his mighty men, and before them laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The message of the brethren: then Amorphel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keeper of the palace and nearest lord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the king, arose, and bending low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the throne, craved leave to speak a word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amorphel was a crafty, treacherous man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With oily lips well versed in flattery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And courtly speech, a supple reed ready</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bend before his royal master’s lightest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breath⁠—Pharaoh’s willing tool. He said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Gracious king, thou has been too lenient</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With these slaves; light as their burdens are, they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fret and chafe beneath them. They are idle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the blood runs riot in their veins. Now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou would’st have these people dwell in peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Increase, I pray thee, their tasks and add unto</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their burdens; if they faint beneath their added</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tasks, they will have less time to plot sedition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And revolt.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Rhadma, oldest lord in Pharaoh’s court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arose. He was an aged man, whose white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heavy beard hung low upon his breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet there was a hard cold glitter in his eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on his face a proud and evil look.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had been a servant to the former king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wore his signet ring upon his hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said, “I know this Moses well. Fourscore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Years ago Princess Charmian found him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the Nile and rescued him from death, and did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Choose him as her son, and had him versed in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mysteries and lore of Egypt. But blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will tell, and this base slave, with servile blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within his veins, would rather be a servant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than a prince, and so, with rude and reckless hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thrust aside the honors of our dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Departed king. Pharaoh was justly wroth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But for his daughter’s sake he let the trespass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass. But one day this Moses slew an Egyptian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his wrath, and then the king did seek his life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But be fled, it is said, unto the deserts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Arabia, and became a shepherd for the priest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Midian. But now, instead of leading flocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And herds, he aspires to lead his captive race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To freedom. These men mean mischief; sedition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And revolt are in their plans. Decree, I pray thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That these men shall gather their own straw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet their tale of bricks shall be the same.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these words pleased Pharaoh well, and all his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lords chimed in with one accord. And Pharaoh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrote the stern decree and sent it unto Goshen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the laborers should gather their own straw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet they should not ’minish of their tale of bricks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">’Twas a sad day in Goshen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The king’s decree hung like a gloomy pall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around their homes. The people fainted ’neath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their added tasks, then cried unto the king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he would ease their burdens; but he hissed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A taunt into their ears and said, “ye are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Idle, and your minds are filled with vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And foolish thoughts; get you into your tasks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ye shall not ’minish of your tale of bricks.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">And then they turned their eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reproachfully on Moses and his brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laid the cruel blame upon their shoulders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis an old story now, but then ’twas new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the brethren⁠—how God’s anointed ones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must walk with bleeding feet the paths that turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lines of living light; how hands that bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Salvation in their palms are pierced with cruel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nails, and lips that quiver first with some great truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are steeped in bitterness and tears, and brows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now bright beneath the aureola of God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have bent beneath the thorny crowns of earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">There was hope for Israel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they did not see the golden fringes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their coming morn; they only saw the cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grey sky, and fainted ’neath the cheerless gloom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Moses sought again the presence of the king:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Pharaoh’s brow grew dark with wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rising up in angry haste, he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defiantly, “If thy God be great, show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us some sign or token of his power.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses threw his rod upon the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it trembled with a sign of life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dark wood glowed, then changed into a thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of glistening scales and golden rings, and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brown and purple stripes; a hissing, hateful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thing, that glared its fiery eye, and darting forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Moses’ side, lay coiled and panting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the monarch’s feet. With wonder open-eyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The king gazed on the changed rod, then called</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For his magicians⁠—wily men, well versed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sinful lore⁠—and bade them do the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they, leagued with the powers of night, did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Also change their rods to serpents; then Moses’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serpent darted forth, and with a startling hiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And angry gulp, he swallowed the living things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That coiled along his path. And thus did Moses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Show that Israel’s God had greater power</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Than those dark sons of night.</span>
						<span>But not by this alone</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did God his mighty power reveal: He changed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their waters; every fountain, well and pool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was red with blood, and lips, all parched with thirst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shrank back in horror from the crimson draughts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the worshiped Nile grew full of life:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions of frogs swarmed from the stream⁠—they clogged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pathway of the priests and filled the sacred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fanes, and crowded into Pharaoh’s bed, and hopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into his trays of bread, and slumbered in his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ovens and his pans.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then came another plague, of loathsome vermin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were gray and creeping things, that made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their very clothes alive with dark and sombre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spots⁠—things so loathsome in the land they did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suspend the service of the temple; for no priest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dared to lift his hand to any god with one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these upon him. And then the sky grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark, as if a cloud were passing o’er its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Changeless blue; a buzzing sound broke o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city, and the land was swarmed with flies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The murrain laid their cattle low; the hail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut off the first fruits of the Nile; the locusts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their hungry jaws, destroyed the later crops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left the ground as brown and bare as if a fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Had scorched it through.</span>
						<span>Then angry blains</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fiery boils did blur the flesh of man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beast; and then for three long days, nor saffron</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tint, nor crimson flush, nor soft and silvery light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divided day from morn, nor told the passage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the hours; men rose not from their seats, but sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In silent awe. That lengthened night lay like a burden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the air⁠—a darkness one might almost gather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his hand, it was so gross and thick. Then came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last dread plague⁠—the death of the first born.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i14">’Twas midnight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a startling shriek rose from each palace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Home and hut of Egypt, save the blood-besprinkled homes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Goshen; the midnight seemed to shiver with a sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dread, as if the mystic angel’s wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had chilled the very air with horror.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death! Death! was everywhere⁠—in every home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A corpse⁠—in every heart a bitter woe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were anxious fingerings for the pulse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ne’er would throb again, and eager listenings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some sound of life⁠—a hurrying to and fro⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then burning kisses on the cold lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dead, bitter partings, sad farewells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mournful sobs and piercing shrieks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And deep and heavy groans throughout the length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breadth of Egypt. ’Twas the last dread plague,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it had snapped in twain the chains on which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rust of ages lay, and Israel was freed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not only freed, but thrust in eager haste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From out the land. Trembling men stood by, and longed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see them gather up their flocks and herds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And household goods, and leave the land; because they felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That death stood at their doors as long as Israel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lingered there; and they went forth in haste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tread the paths of freedom.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But Pharaoh was strangely blind, and turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his first-born and his dead, with Egypt’s wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarce still upon his ear, he asked which way had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Israel gone? They told him that they journeyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Towards the mighty sea, and were encamped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near Baalzephon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Pharaoh said, “the wilderness will hem them in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mighty sea will roll its barriers in front,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with my chariots and my warlike men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll bring them back, or mete them out their graves.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">Then Pharaoh’s officers arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gathered up the armies of the king,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made his chariots ready for pursuit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With proud escutcheons blazoned to the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his chariot of ivory, pearl and gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pharaoh rolled out of Egypt; and with him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode his mighty men, their banners floating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the breeze, their spears and armor glittering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the morning light; and Israel saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fainting hearts, their old oppressors on their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Track: then women wept in hopeless terror;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children hid their faces in their mothers’ robes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strong men bowed their heads in agony and dread;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a bitter, angry murmur rose⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Were there no graves in Egypt, that thou hast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought us here to die?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Moses lifted up his face, aglow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With earnest faith in God, and bade their fainting hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be strong and they should his salvation see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Stand still,” said Moses to the fearful throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hearts were fainting in the wild, “Stand still.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, that was Moses’ word, but higher and greater</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came God’s watchword for the hour, and not for that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone, but all the coming hours of time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Speak ye unto the people and bid them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forward go; stretch thy hand across the waters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smite them with thy rod.” And Moses smote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The restless sea; the waves stood up in heaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then lay as calm and still as lips that just</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had tasted death. The secret-loving sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid bare her coral caves and iris-tinted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Floor; that wall of flood which lined the people’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Way was God’s own wondrous masonry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The signal pillar sent to guide them through the wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moved its dark shadow till it fronted Egypt’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Camp, but hung in fiery splendor, a light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Israel’s path. Madly rushed the hosts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Pharaoh upon the people’s track, when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solemn truth broke on them⁠—that God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Israel fought. With cheeks in terror</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blenching, and eyes astart with fear, “let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us flee,” they cried, “from Israel, for their God</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doth fight against us; he is battling on their side.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They had trusted in their chariots, but now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hope was vain; God had loosened every</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Axle and unfastened every wheel, and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Face did gather blackness and each heart stood still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fear, as the livid lightnings glittered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the thunder roared and muttered on the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they saw the dreadful ruin that shuddered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er their heads, for the waves began to tremble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wall of flood to bend. Then arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cry of terror, baffled hate and hopeless dread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gurgling sound of horror, as the waves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came madly dashing, wildly crashing, seeking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out their place again, and the flower and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Egypt sank as lead within the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the waves threw back their corpses cold and stark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the shore, and the song of Israel’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triumph was the requiem of their foes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh the grandeur of that triumph; up the cliffs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down the valleys, o’er the dark and restless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sea, rose the people’s shout of triumph, going</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up in praise to God, and the very air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed joyous, for the choral song of millions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throbbed upon its viewless wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then another song of triumph rose in accents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soft and clear; ’twas the voice of Moses’ sister</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rising in the tide of song. The warm blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of her childhood seemed dancing in her veins;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The roses of her girlhood were flushing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On her cheek, and her eyes flashed out the splendor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of long departed days, for time itself seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pausing, and she lived the past again; again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Nile flowed by her; she was watching by the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little ark of rushes where her baby brother lay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tender tide of rapture swept o’er her soul again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She had felt when Pharaoh’s daughter had claimed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him as her own, and her mother wept for joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above her rescued son. Then again she saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him choosing “ ’twixt Israel’s pain and sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Egypt’s pomp and pride.” But now he stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their leader triumphant on that shore, and loud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She struck the cymbals as she led the Hebrew women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In music, dance and song, as they shouted out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Triumphs in sweet and glad refrains.</span>
				</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:hymn">
					<header>
						<p>Miriam’s Song</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>A wail in the palace, a wail in the hut,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The midnight is shivering with dread,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Egypt wakes up with a shriek and a sob</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To mourn for her first-born and dead.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In the morning glad voices greeted the light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">As the Nile with its splendor was flushed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At midnight silence had melted their tones,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And their music forever is hushed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In the morning the princes of palace and court</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">To the heir of the kingdom bowed down;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Tis midnight, pallid and stark in his shroud</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">He dreams not of kingdom or crown.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>As a monument blasted and blighted by God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Through the ages proud Pharaoh shall stand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All seamed with the vengeance and scarred with the wrath</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That leaped from God’s terrible hand.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They journeyed on from Zuphim’s sea until</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They reached the sacred mount and heard the solemn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decalogue. The mount was robed in blackness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heavy and deep the shadows lay; the thunder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crashed and roared upon the air; the lightning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaped from crag to crag; God’s fearful splendor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowed around, and Sinai quaked and shuddered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To its base, and there did God proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto their listening ears, the great, the grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The central and the primal truth of all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The universe⁠—the unity of God.</span>
						<span>Only one God⁠—</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This truth received into the world’s great life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not as an idle dream nor speculative thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But as a living, vitalizing thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should bind us closer to our God and link us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With our fellow man, the brothers and co-heirs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Christ, the elder brother of our race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before this truth let every blade of war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow dull, and slavery, cowering at the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skulk from the homes of men; instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of war bring peace and freedom, love and joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And light for man, instead of bondage, whips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chains. Only one God! the strongest hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should help the weak who bend before the blasts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life, because if God is only one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then we are the children of his mighty hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when we best serve man, we also serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our God. Let haughty rulers learn that men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of humblest birth and lowliest lot have</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rights as sacred and divine as theirs, and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fence in leagues of earth by bonds and claims</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And title deeds, forgetting land and water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Air and light are God’s own gifts and heritage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For man⁠—who throw their selfish lives between</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s sunshine and the shivering poor⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have never learned the wondrous depth, nor scaled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glorious height of this great central truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around which clusters all the holiest faiths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth. The thunder died upon the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lightning ceased its livid play, the smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And darkness died away in clouds, as soft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fair as summer wreaths that lie around</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The setting sun, and Sinai stood a bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rugged thing among the sacred scenes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a weary thing to bear the burden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that restless and rebellious race. With</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sinai’s thunders almost crashing in their ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They made a golden calf, and in the desert</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread an idol’s feast, and sung the merry songs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They had heard when Mizraim’s songs bowed down before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their vain and heathen gods; and thus for many years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did Moses bear the evil manners of his race⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their angry murmurs, fierce regrets and strange</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgetfulness of God. Born slaves, they did not love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freedom of the wild more than their pots of flesh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pleasant savory things once gathered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the gardens of the Nile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If slavery only laid its weight of chains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the weary, aching limbs, e’en then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It were a curse; but when it frets through nerve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flesh and eats into the weary soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh then it is a thing for every human</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heart to loathe, and this was Israel’s fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when the chains were shaken from their limbs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They failed to strike the impress from their souls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While he who’d basked beneath the radiance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a throne, ne’er turned regretful eyes upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The past, nor sighed to grasp again the pleasures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once resigned; but the saddest trial was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the light and joy fade from their faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the faithless spies spread through their camp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their ill report; and when the people wept</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hopeless unbelief and turned their faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egyptward, and asked a captain from their bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lead them back where they might bind anew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their broken chains, when God arose and shut</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gates of promise on their lives, and left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bones to bleach beneath Arabia’s desert sands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But though they slumbered in the wild, they died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With broader freedom on their lips, and for their</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little ones did God reserve the heritage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So rudely thrust aside.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="moses-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p epub:type="title">The Death of Moses</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>His work was done; his blessing lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like precious ointment on his people’s head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God’s great peace was resting on his soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life had been a lengthened sacrifice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thing of deep devotion to his race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since first he turned his eyes on Egypt’s gild</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glow, and clasped their fortunes in his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held them with a firm and constant grasp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now his work was done; his charge was laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Joshua’s hand, and men of younger blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were destined to possess the land and pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through Jordan to the other side. He too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had hoped to enter there⁠—to tread the soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made sacred by the memories of his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kindred dead, and rest till life’s calm close beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sheltering vines and stately palms of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair land; that hope had colored all his life’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young dreams and sent its mellowed flushes o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His later years; but God’s decree was otherwise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so he bowed his meekened soul in calm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Submission to the word, which bade him climb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Nebo’s highest peak, and view the pleasant land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Jordan’s swells unto the calmer ripples</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the tideless sea, then die with all its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loveliness in sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he passed from Moab’s grassy vale to climb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rugged mount, the people stood in mournful groups,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, with quivering lips and tearful eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reaching out unconscious hands, as if to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His steps and keep him ever at their side, while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others gazed with reverent awe upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The calm and solemn beauty on his aged brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The look of loving trust and lofty faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still beaming from an eye that neither care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor time had dimmed. As he passed upward, tender</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessings, earnest prayers and sad farewells rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each wave of air, then died in one sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murmur of regretful love; and Moses stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>Alone on Nebo’s mount.</span>
						<span>Alone! not one</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all that mighty throng who had trod with him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In triumph through the parted flood was there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aaron had died in Hor, with son and brother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By his side; and Miriam too was gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But kindred hands had made her grave, and Kadesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held her dust. But he was all alone; nor wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor child was there to clasp in death his hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bind around their bleeding hearts the precious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parting words. And yet he was not all alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God’s great presence flowed around his path</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stayed him in that solemn hour.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">He stood upon the highest peak of Nebo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw the Jordan chafing through its gorges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its banks made bright by scarlet blooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And purple blossoms. The placid lakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And emerald meadows, the snowy crest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of distant mountains, the ancient rocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That dripped with honey, the hills all bathed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In light and beauty; the shady groves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And peaceful vistas, the vines opprest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With purple riches, the fig trees fruit-crowned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green and golden, the pomegranates with crimson</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blushes, the olives with their darker clusters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose before him like a vision, full of beauty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And delight. Gazed he on the lovely landscape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till it faded from his view, and the wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of death’s sweet angel hovered o’er the mountain’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crest, and he heard his garments rustle through</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="dl2">
						<span>The watches of the night.</span>
						<span>Then another, fairer, vision</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke upon his longing gaze; ’twas the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crystal fountains, love and beauty, joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And light, for the pearly gates flew open,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his ransomed soul went in. And when morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er the mountain fringed each crag and peak with light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold and lifeless lay the leader. God had touched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes with slumber, giving his beloved sleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh never on that mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was seen a lovelier sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than the troupe of fair young angels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That gathered ’round the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gentle hands they bore bim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bright and shining train,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Nebo’s lonely mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sleep in Moab’s vale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they sung no mornful dirges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No solemn requiems said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the soft wave of their pinions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made music as they trod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no one heard them passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None saw their chosen grave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the angels’ secret</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Moses should be laid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the grave was finished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They trod with golden sandals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the sacred spot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the brightest, fairest flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang up beneath their tread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor broken turf, nor hillock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did e’er reveal that grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And truthful lips have never said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know where he is laid.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to-hon-thaddeus-stevens" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Thaddeus Stevens</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Have the bright and glowing visions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faded from thy longing sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the gorgeous tints of ev’n</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mingling with the shades of night?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Didst thou hope to see thy country</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wearing Justice as a crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Standing foremost ’mid the nations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Worthy of the world’s renown?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Didst thou think the grand fruition</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reached the fullness of its time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the crater of God’s judgment</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Overflowed the nation’s crime?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That thy people, purged by fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would have trod another path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Careful, lest their feet should stumble</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the cinders of God’s wrath?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And again the injured negro</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grind the dreadful mills of fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pressing out the fearful vintage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the nation’s scorn and hate?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sadder than the crimson shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hung for years around our skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are the hopes so fondly cherished</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fading now before thine eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not in vain has been thy hoping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though thy fair ideals fade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If, like one of God’s tall aloes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou art rip’ning in the shade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is light beyond the darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Joy beyond the present pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is hope in God’s great justice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the negro’s rising brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though before the timid counsels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Truth and Right may seem to fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God hath bathed his sword in judgment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his arm shall yet prevail.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-appeal-to-the-american-people" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Appeal to the American People</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When a dark and fearful strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Raged around the nation’s life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the traitor plunged his steel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where your quivering hearts could feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When your cause did need a friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We were faithful to the end.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When we stood with bated breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing fiery storms of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the war-cloud, red with wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fiercely swept around our path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did our hearts with terror quail?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or our courage ever fail?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the captive, wanting bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sought our poor and lowly shed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the bloodhounds missed his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did we e’er his path betray?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filled we not his heart with trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we shared with him our crust?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With your soldiers, side by side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Helped we turn the battle’s tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till o’er ocean, stream and shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waved the rebel flag no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And above the rescued sod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Praises rose to freedom’s God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But to-day the traitor stands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the crimson on his hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scowling ’neath his brow of hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On our weak and desolate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the blood-rust on the knife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aimèd at the nation’s life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Asking you to weakly yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All we won upon the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To ignore, on land and flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the offerings of our blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to write above our slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“They have fought and died in vain.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To your manhood we appeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest the traitor’s iron heel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grind and trample in the dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All our new-born hope and trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the name of freedom be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Linked with bitter mockery.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="truth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Truth</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A rock, for ages, stern and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood frowning ’gainst the earth and sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never bowed his haughty crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When angry storms around him prest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Morn springing from the arms of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had often bathed his brow with light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kissed the shadows from his face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tender love and gentle grace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Day, pausing at the gates of rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smiled on him from the distant West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from her throne the dark-browed Night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Threw round his path her softest light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet he stood unmoved and proud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor love, nor wrath, his spirit bowed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He bared his brow to every blast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scorned the tempest as it passed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One day a tiny, humble seed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The keenest eye would hardly heed⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fell trembling at that stern rock’s base,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found a lowly hiding place.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A ray of light, and drop of dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came with a message, kind and true;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They told her of the world so bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its love, its joy, and rosy light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lured her from her hiding place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To gaze upon earth’s glorious face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So, peeping timid from the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She clasped the ancient rock around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And climbing up with childish grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She held him with a close embrace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her clinging was a thing of dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where’er she touched a fissure spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he who’d breasted many a storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood frowning there, a mangled form;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So Truth dropped in the silent earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May seem a thing of little worth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till, spreading round some mighty wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It saps its pillars proud and strong.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="death-of-the-old-sea-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Death of the Old Sea King</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas a fearful night⁠—the tempest raved</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With loud and wrathful pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The storm-king harnessed his lightning steeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And rode on the raging tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sea-king lay on his bed of death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale mourners around him bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They knew the wild and fitful life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of their chief was almost spent.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His ear was growing dull in death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the angry storm he heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sluggish blood in the old man’s veins</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sudden vigor stirred.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I hear them call,” cried the dying man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His eyes grew full of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Now bring me here my warrior robes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My sword and armor bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“In the tempest’s lull I heard a voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I knew ’twas Odin’s call.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Valkyrs are gathering round my bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To lead me unto his hall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Bear me unto my noblest ship,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Light up a funeral pyre;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll walk to the palace of the braves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a path of flame and fire.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O! wild and bright was the stormy light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That flashed from the old man’s eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they bore him from the couch of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To his battle-ship to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And lit with many a mournful torch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sea-king’s dying bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like a banner fair and bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flames around him spread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they heard no cry of anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break through that fiery wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rigid brow and silent lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was seeking Odin’s hall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through a path of fearful splendor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While strong men held their breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brave old man went boldly forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And calmly talked with death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-the-light-enter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">“Let the Light Enter!”</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Dying Words of Goethe</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Light! more light! the shadows deepen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And my life is ebbing low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Throw the windows widely open!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Light! more light! before I go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Softly let the balmy sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Play around my dying bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E’er the dimly lighted valley</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I with lonely feet shall tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Light! more light! for death is weaving</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shadows round my waning sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I fain would gaze upon him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a stream of earthly light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for greater gifts of genius,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor for thoughts more grandly bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the dying poet whispers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is a prayer for light, more light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heeds he not the gathered laurels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fading slowly from his sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the poet’s aspirations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Centre in that prayer for light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blessed Jesus, when our day dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Melt and vanish from the sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May our dim and longing vision</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then be blessed with light, more light!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="youth-in-heaven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Youth in Heaven</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“In heaven the angels are advancing continually to the springtime of their youth, so that the oldest angel appears the youngest.”</p>
					<cite>Swedenborg</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the length’ning shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Falling coldly round our lives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nearer, nearer through the ages</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life’s new spring for them arrives.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the doubt and anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of an old and loveless age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dropping sadly tears of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On life’s faded, blotted page.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the mournful dimming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the weary, tear-stained eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That has seen the sad procession</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of its dearest hopes go by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for them the hopeless clinging</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To life’s worn and feeble strands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the last has ceased to tremble</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In our agèd, withered hands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Never lines of light and darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thread the brows forever fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the eldest of the angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seems the youngest brother there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There the stream of life doth never</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cross the mournful plains of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the pearly gates are ever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Closed against his icy breath.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="death-of-zombi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Death of Zombi</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">The Chief of a Negro Kingdom in South America</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Cruel in vengeance, reckless in wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hunters of men bore down on our path;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inhuman and fierce, the offer they gave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was freedom in death or the life of a slave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cheek of the mother grew pallid with dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the tidings of evil around us were spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And closer and closer she strained to her heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The children she feared they would sever apart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brows of our maidens grew gloomy and sad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hot tears burst from eyes once sparkling and glad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our young men stood ready to join in the fray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That hung as a pall ’round our people that day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our leaders gazed angry and stern on the strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For freedom to them was dearer than life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was mourning at home and death in the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For carnage and famine together did meet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pale lips of hunger were asking for bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While husbands and fathers lay bleeding and dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For days we withstood the tempests of wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That scattered destruction and death in our path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till, broken and peeled, we yielded at last,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glory and strength of our kingdom were past.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Zombi, our leader, and warlike old chief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazed down on our woe with anger and grief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tyrant for him forged fetters in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His freedom-girt limbs had worn their last chain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Defiance and daring still flashed from his eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A freeman he’d lived and free he would die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he climbed to the verge of a dangerous steep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved from its margin to take a last leap;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a fearful death and a bloody grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were dearer to him than the life of a slave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor went he alone to the mystic land⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There were other warriors in his band,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who rushed with him to Death’s dark gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All wrapped in the shroud of a mournful fate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to-charles-sumner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to Charles Sumner</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thank God that thou hast spoken</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words earnest, true and brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lightning of thy lips did smite</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fetters of the slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I thought the shadows deepened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round the pathway of the slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As one by one his faithful friends</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were dropping in the grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When other hands grew feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And loosed their hold on life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy words rang like a clarion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For freedom’s noble strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy words were not soft echoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy tones no siren song;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They fell as battle-axes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon our giant wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God grant thy words of power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May fall as precious seeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That yet shall leaf and blossom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In high and holy deeds.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sir-we-would-see-jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Sir, We Would See Jesus”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We would see Jesus; earth is grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flowing out from her Creator’s hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like one who tracks his steps with light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His footsteps ever greet our sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The earth below, the sky above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are full of tokens of his love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’mid the fairest scenes we’ve sighed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our hearts are still unsatisfied.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We would see Jesus; proud and high</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Temples and domes have met our eye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ve gazed upon the glorious thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By earnest hands in marble wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And listened where the lying feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat time to music, soft and sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bow’rs of ease, and halls of pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our yearning hearts ne’er satisfied.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We would see Jesus; we have heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tidings our inmost souls have stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, from their chambers full of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The darkened eyes receive the light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, at the music of his voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lame do leap, the dumb rejoice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anxious we’ll wait until we’ve seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The good and gracious Nazarene.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-bride-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Bride of Death</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They robed her for another groom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her bridal couch, prepared the tomb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the sunny love of her marriage day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A stronger rival had won her away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His wooing was like a stern command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cold was the pressure of his hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through her veins he sent an icy thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With sudden fear her heart stood still;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his dusty palace the bride he led,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her guests were the pale and silent dead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No eye flashed forth a loving light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To greet the bride as she came in sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not one reached out a joyous hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To welcome her home to the mystic land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Silent she sat in the death still hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her bridal robe she wore a pall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Instead of orange-blossoms fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Willow and cypress wreathed her hair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though her mother’s kiss lay on her cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lips no answering love could speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No air of life stirred in her breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fair young girl was the bride of death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thank-god-for-little-children" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thank God for Little Children</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thank God for little children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bright flowers by earth’s wayside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dancing, joyous lifeboats</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon life’s stormy tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thank God for little children;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When our skies are cold and gray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They come as sunshine to our hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And charm our cares away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I almost think the angels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who tend life’s garden fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drop down the sweet wild blossoms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That bloom around us here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seems a breath of heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round many a cradle lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every little baby</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brings a message from the skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The humblest home with children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is rich in precious gems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That shame the wealth of monarchs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And pale their diadems.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dear mothers, guard these jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As sacred offerings meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wealth of household treasures</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To lay at Jesus’ feet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-fugitive" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Fugitive</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Slowly o’er his darkened features</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stole the warning shades of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we knew the mystic angel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Waited for his parting breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had started for his freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his heart beat firm and high;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But before he won the guerdon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came the message⁠—he must die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He must die when just before him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay the longed-for precious prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hopes that lit him onward</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faded out before his eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For awhile a fearful madness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rested on his weary brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he thought the hateful tyrant</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had rebound his galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then he cried in bitter anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Take me where that good man dwells,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a name to freedom precious</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lingered ’mid life’s shattered cells.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But as sunshine gently stealing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the storm-cloud’s gloomy track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the tempests of his bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came the light of reason back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, without a sigh or murnur</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the friends he’d left behind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Calmly yielded he his spirit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the Father of mankind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thankful that so near to freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He with eager feet had trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere his ransom’d spirit rested</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the bosom of his God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-freedom-bell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Freedom Bell</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ring, aye, ring the freedom bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And let its tones be loud and clear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With glad hosannas let it swell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until it reach the Bondman’s ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through pain that wrings the life apart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And spasms full of deadly strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And throes that shake the nation’s heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fainting land renews her life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where shrieks and groans distract the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sods grow red with crimson rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ransom’d slave shall kneel in prayer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bury deep his rusty chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where cheeks now pale with sickening dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And brows grow dark with cruel wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall Freedom’s banner wide be spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Hope and Peace attend her path.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White-robed and pure her feet shall move</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er rifts of ruin deep and wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hands shall span with lasting love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The chasms rent by hate and pride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where waters, blush’d with human gore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unsullied streams shall purl along;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where crashed the battle’s awful roar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall rise the Freeman’s joyful song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then ring, aye, ring the freedom bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Proclaiming all the nation free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let earth with sweet thanksgiving swell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heaven catch up the melody.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mary-at-the-feet-of-christ" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mary at the Feet of Christ</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She stood at Jesus’ feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bathed them with her tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While o’er her spirit surg’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The guilt and shame of years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though Simon saw the grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon the fair young face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stern man coldly thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For her this is no place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her feet have turned aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From paths of truth and right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Christ a prophet be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’ll spurn her from his sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And silently he watched</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The child of sin and care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Uncoil upon Christ’s feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her wealth of raven hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Life! she sadly thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know thy bane and blight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I fain would find</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The path of peace and right.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ve seen the leper cleansed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ve seen the sick made whole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mine’s a deeper wound⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It eats into the soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And men have trampled down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The beauty once their prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While women pass me by</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With cold, averted eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now a hope of peace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Steals o’er my weary breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from these lips of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There comes a sense of rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tender, loving Christ</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gazed on her tearful eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then saw on Simon’s face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A look of cold surprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Simon,” the Saviour said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Thou wast to me remiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I came thy guest, but thou</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Didst give no welcome kiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Thou broughtest from thy fount</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No water cool and sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she, with many tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath bent and kissed my feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Thou pouredst on my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No oil with kindly care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she anoints my feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wipes them with her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I know her steps have strayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her sins they many be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she with love hath bound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her erring heart to me.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How sweetly fell his words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon her bruised heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When, like a ghastly train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She felt her sins depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What music heard on earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or rapture moving heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were like those precious words⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Thy sins are all forgiven!”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-mothers-blessing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Mother’s Blessing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, my soul had grown so weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With its many cares opprest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All my heart’s high aspirations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Languish’d in a prayer for rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was like a lonely stranger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pining in a distant land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing on her lips a language</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">None around her understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Longing for a close communion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With some kindred mind and heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But whose language is a jargon</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Past her skill, and past her art.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God in mercy looked upon me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saw my fainting, pain and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sent to me a blest evangel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the gates of light and life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then my desert leafed and blossom’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beauty decked its deepest wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hope and joy, peace and blessing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Met me in my first-born child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the tiny hands, so feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brought me smiles and joyful tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lifted from my life the shadows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That had gathered there for years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God, I thank thee for the blessing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That at last has crown’d my life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soothed its weary, lonely anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stay’d its fainting, calm’d its strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gracious Parent! guard and shelter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In thine arms my darling child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till she treads the streets of jasper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Glorified and undefiled.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="vashti" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Vashti</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She leaned her head upon her hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heard the king’s decree⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“My lords are feasting in my halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bid Vashti come to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I’ve shown the treasures of my house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My costly jewels rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with the glory of her eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No rubies can compare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Adorn’d and crown’d I’d have her come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With all her queenly grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, ’mid my lords and mighty men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unveil her lovely face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Each gem that sparkles in my crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or glitters on my throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grows poor and pale when she appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My beautiful, my own!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All waiting stood the chamberlains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To hear the Queen’s reply,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They saw her cheek grow deathly pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But light flash’d to her eye:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Go, tell the King,” she proudly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“That I am Persia’s Queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And by his crowds of merry men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I never will be seen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I’ll take the crown from off my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And tread it ’neath my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before their rude and careless gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My shrinking eyes shall meet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“A queen unveil’d before the crowd!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon each lip my name!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why, Persia’s women all would blush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And weep for Vashti’s shame!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Go back!” she cried, and waived her hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And grief was in her eye:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Go, tell the King,” she sadly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“That I would rather die.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They brought her message to the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dark flash’d his angry eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas as the lightning ere the storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath swept in fury by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then bitterly outspoke the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through purple lips of wrath⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What shall be done to her who dares</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To cross your monarch’s path?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then spake his wily counsellors⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“O King of this fair land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From distant Ind to Ethiop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All bow to thy command.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“But if, before thy servants’ eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This thing they plainly see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Vashti doth not heed thy will</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor yield herself to thee,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“The women, restive ’neath our rule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would learn to scorn our name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from her deed to us would come</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reproach and burning shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Then, gracious King, sign with thy hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This stern but just decree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Vashti lay aside her crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy Queen no more to be.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She heard again the King’s command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And left her high estate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong in her earnest womanhood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She calmly met her fate,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And left the palace of the King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Proud of her spotless name⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman who could bend to grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But would not bow to shame.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-change" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Change</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The blue sky arching overhead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The green turf ’neath my daily tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All glorified by freedom’s light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grow fair and lovely to my sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The very winds that sweep along</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed burdened with a lovely song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor shrieks nor groans of grief or fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Float on their wings and pain my ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more with dull and aching breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Roused by the horn⁠—I rise from rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Content and cheerful with my lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I greet the sun and leave my cot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For darling child and loving wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I toil with newly waken’d life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The light that lingers round her smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shadows from my soul beguile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The pratile of my darling boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fills my old heart with untold joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before his laughter, mirth and song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fade out long scores of grief and wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, never did the world appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So lovely to my eye and ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till Freedom came, with Joy and Peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bade my hateful bondage cease!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Mother</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come nearer to me, husband,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Now the aching leaves my breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my eyes are dim and weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And to-night I fain would rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Clasp me closer to your bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere I calmly sleep in death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With your arms enfolded round me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I would yield my parting breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bring me now my darling baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God’s own precious gift of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell her she must meet her mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the brighter world above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When her little feet grow stronger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To walk life’s paths untrod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That earnest, true and hopeful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She must lay her hands on God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell my other little children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They must early seek His face;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That His love is a strong tower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And His arms a hiding place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell them⁠—but my voice grows fainter⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Surely, husband, this is death⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell them that their dying mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bless’d them with her latest breath.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="words-for-the-hour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Words for the Hour</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Men of the North! it is no time</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To quit the battle-field;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When danger fronts your rear and van</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It is no time to yield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No time to bend the battle’s crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before the wily foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, ostrich-like, to hide your heads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the impending blow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The minions of a baffled wrong</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are marshalling their clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise up! rise up, enchanted North!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And strike for God and man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is no time for careless ease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No time for idle sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go light the fires in every camp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And solemn sentries keep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The foe ye foiled upon the field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has only changed his base;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New dangers crowd around you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And stare you in the face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Northern men! within your hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is held no common trust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Secure the victories won by blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When treason bit the dust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis yours to banish from the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oppression’s iron rule;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the ruin’d auction-block</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Erect the common school.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To wipe from labor’s branded brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The curse that shamed the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And teach the Freedman how to wield</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ballot in his hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is the nation’s golden hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nerve every heart and hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To build on Justice, as a rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The future of the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>True to your trust, oh, never yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One citadel of right!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Truth and Justice clasping hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye yet shall win the fight!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="president-lincolns-proclamation-of-freedom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">President Lincoln’s Proclamation of Freedom</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It shall flash through coming ages;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It shall light the distant years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And eyes now dim with sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be clearer through their tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It shall flush the mountain ranges;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the valleys shall grow bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It shall bathe the hills in radiance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And crown their brows with light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It shall flood with golden splendor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the huts of Caroline,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun-kissed brow of labor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With lustre new shall shine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It shall gild the gloomy prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Darken’d by the nation’s crime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the dumb and patient millions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wait the better coming time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>By the light that gilds their prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They shall seize its mould’ring key,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the bolts and bars shall vibrate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the triumphs of the free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like the dim and ancient chaos,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shrinking from the dawn of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oppression, grim and hoary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall cower at the sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And her spawn of lies and malice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall grovel in the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While joy shall thrill the bosoms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the merciful and just.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though the morning seemed to linger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er the hill-tops far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the shadows bear the promise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the quickly coming day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon the mists and murky shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be fringed with crimson light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glorious dawn of freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break refulgent on the sight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-babe-smiling-in-her-sleep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Babe Smiling in Her Sleep</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Tell me, did the angels greet thee?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Greet my darling when she smiled?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did they whisper, softly, gently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pleasant thoughts unto my child?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Did they whisper, ’mid thy dreaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thoughts that made thy spirit glad?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the joy-lighted city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the heart is never sad?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Did they tell thee of the fountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clear as crystal, fair as light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the glory-brightened country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never shaded by a night?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of life’s pure, pellucid river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tree whose leaves do yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Healing for the wounded nations⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nations smitten, bruised and peeled?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of the city, ruby-founded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Built on gems of flashing light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Paling all earth’s lustrous jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the gates of pearly white?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Darling, when life’s shadows deepen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round thy prison-house of clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May the footsteps of God’s angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever linger round thy way.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-artist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Artist</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood before his finished work;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His heart beat warm and high;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they who gazed upon the youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Knew well that he must die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For many days a fever fierce</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had burned into his life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But full of high impassioned art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He bore the fearful strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And wrought in ecstasy and hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of his brain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He felt the death throes at his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But labored through the pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The statue seemed to glow with life⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A costly work of art;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it he paid the fervent blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From his own eager heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With kindling eye and flushing cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But slowly laboring breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gazed upon his finished work,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then sought his couch of death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the plaudits of the crowd</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came like the south wind’s breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dreamy, gifted child of art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had closed his eyes in death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jesus</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come speak to me of Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I love that precious name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who built a throne of power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon a cross of shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unveil to me the beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That glorifies his face⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fullness of the Father⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of his grace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul would run to meet Him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Restrain me not with creeds;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Christ, the hope of glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is what my spirit needs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I need the grand attraction,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That centres ’round the cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To change the gilded things of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To emptiness and dross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My feet are prone to wander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My eyes to turn aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I fain would linger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With Christ the crucified.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I want a faith that’s able</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To stand each storm and shock⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A faith forever rooted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Christ the living Rock.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fifteenth-amendment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fifteenth Amendment</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Beneath the burden of our joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tremble, O wires, from East to West!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fashion with words your tongues of fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To tell the nation’s high behest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Outstrip the winds, and leave behind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The murmur of the restless waves;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor tarry with your glorious news,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid the ocean’s coral caves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ring out! ring out! your sweetest chimes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye bells, that call to prayer and praise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let every heart with gladness thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And songs of joyful triumph raise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shake off the dust, O rising race!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crowned as a brother and a man;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Justice to-day asserts her claim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And from thy brow fades out the ban.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With freedom’s chrism upon thy head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her precious ensign in thy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go place thy once despisèd name</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid the noblest of the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O ransomed race! give God the praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who led thee through a crimson sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’mid the storm of fire and blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Turned out the war-cloud’s light to thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="retribution" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Retribution</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Judgment slumbered. God in mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stayed his strong avenging hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sent them priests and sent them prophets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But they would not understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Judgment lingered; men, grown bolder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gloried in their shame and guilt;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blood of God’s poor childrep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was as water freely spilt.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then arose a cry to heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep and startling, sad and wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sadder than the wail of Egypt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mourning for the first-born child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the sighing of the needy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God at length did bare his hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the footsteps of his judgments</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Echoed through the guilty land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! the terror, grief and anguish;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! the bitter, fearful strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the judgments of Jehovah</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pressed upon the nation’s life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the land did reel and tremble</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Neath the terror of his frown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For its guilt lay heavy on it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pressing like an iron crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As a warning to the nations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bathed in blood and swathed in fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay the once oppressing nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Smitten by God’s fearful ire.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sin-of-achan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sin of Achan</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Night closed o’er the battling army,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But it brought them no success;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victory perched not on their banners;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Night was full of weariness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Flushed and hopeful in the morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Turned they from their leader’s side:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Routed, smitten and defeated,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came they back at eventide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then in words of bitter mourning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Joshua’s voice soon arose:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Tell us, O thou God of Jacob,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why this triumph of our foes?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To his pleading came the answer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why the hosts in fear did yield:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“ ’Twas because a fearful trespass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Mid their tents did lie concealed.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Clear and plain before His vision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With whom darkness is as light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay the spoils that guilty Achan</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Covered from his brethren’s sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From their tents they purged the evil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That had ruin round them spread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then they won the field of battle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whence they had in terror fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through the track of many ages</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Comes this tale of woe and crime;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us read it as a lesson</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a warning for our time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, for some strong-hearted Joshua!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Faithful to his day and time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who will wholly rid the nation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of her clinging curse and crime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Till she writes on every banner</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All beneath these folds are free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the oppressed and groaning millions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shout the nation’s Jubilee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to-miles-o-reiley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to Miles O’Reiley</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You’ve heard no doubt of Irish bulls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And how they blunder, thick and fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of all the queer and foolish things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’Reiley, you have said the last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You say we brought the rebs supplies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gave them aid amid the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if you must be ruled by rebs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Instead of black you want them white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You blame us that we did not rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And pluck war from a fiery brand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Little Mac said if we did,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’d put us down with iron hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when we sought to join your ranks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And battle with you, side by side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did men not curl their lips with scorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And thrust us back with hateful pride?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when at last we gained the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did we not firmly, bravely stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And help to turn the tide of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That spread its ruin o’er the land?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We hardly think we’re worse than those</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who kindled up this fearful strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because we did not seize the chance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To murder helpless babes and wife,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And had we struck, with vengeful hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The rebel where he most could feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were you not ready to impale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our hearts upon your Northern steel?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O’Reiley, men like you should wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gift of song like some bright crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor worse than ruffians of the ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strike at a man because he’s down.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-little-builders" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Little Builders</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ye are builders, little builders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not with mortar, brick and stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But your work is far more glorious⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye are building freedom’s throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the ocean never slumbers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Works the coral ’neath the spray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By and by a reef or island</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rears its head to greet the day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the balmy rains and sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Scatter treasures o’er the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till a place for human footprints,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crown the little builder’s toil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the stately ships sweep o’er them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cresting all the sea with foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little think these patient toilers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are building man a home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you ask me, precious children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How your little hands can build,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That you love the name of freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But your fingers are unskilled?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not on thrones or in proud temples,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Does fair freedom seek her rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, her chosen habitations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are the hearts that love her best.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would you gain the highest freedom?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Live for God and man alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then each heart in freedom’s temple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will be like a living stone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fill your minds with useful knowledge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Learn to love the true and right;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus you’ll build the throne of freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On a pedestal of light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-child-to-her-blind-father" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Child to Her Blind Father</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dear father, I hear a whisper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It tells me that I must go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my heart returns her answer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In throbbings so faint and low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m sorry to leave you, father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know you will miss me so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the world for you will gather</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A gloomier shade of woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You will miss me, dearest father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the violets wake from sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And timidly from their hedges</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The early snow-drops peep,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I shall not be here to gather</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flowers by stream and dell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bright and beautiful flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dear Father, you love so well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You will miss my voice, dear father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From every earthly tone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the songs that cheered your darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And you’ll be so sad and lone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I can scarcely rejoice, dear father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In hope of the brighter land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I know you’ll pine in sadness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And miss my guiding hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You are weeping, dearest father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your sobs are shaking my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but we’ll meet again where the shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And night from your eyes shall roll.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then you will see me, father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With visions undimmed and clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your eyes will sparkle with rapture⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You know there’s no blindness there.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="light-in-darkness" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Light in Darkness</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We’ve room to build holy altars</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where our crumbling idols lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ve room for heavenly visions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When our earth dreams fade away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through rifts and rents in our fortune</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We gazed with blinding tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till glimpses of light and beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gilded our gloomy fears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An angel stood at our threshold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We thought him a child of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till we saw the print of his steps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Made lines of living light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We had much the world calls precious;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We had heaps of shining dust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He laid his hand on our treasures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wrote on them moth and rust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But still we had other treasures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That gold was too poor to buy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We clasped them closer and closer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But saw them fade and die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our spirit grew faint and heavy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep shadows lay on our years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till light from the holy city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Streamed through our mist of tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we thanked the chastening angel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who shaded our earthly light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the light and beautiful visions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That broke on our clearer sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our first view of the Holy City</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came through our darken’d years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The songs that lightened our sorrows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We heard ’mid our night of tears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="our-english-friends" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Our English Friends</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Your land is crowned with regal men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose brows ne’er wore a diadem,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men who, in our hour of need,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reached out their hands and bade God speed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who watched across the distant strand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The anguish of our fainting land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grandly made our cause their own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Slavery tottered on her throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Slavery, full of wrath and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was clutching at the Nation’s life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How precious were your words of cheer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fell upon the listening ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when did Fame, with glowing pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Record the deeds of nobler men,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men who, facing want and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loved freedom more than paltry gain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O noble men! ye bravely stood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True to our country’s highest good;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May God, who saw your aims and ends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forever bless our English friends!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="aunt-chloe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Aunt Chloe</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I remember, well remember,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That dark and dreadful day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they whispered to me, “Chloe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your children’s sold away!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seemed as if a bullet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had shot me through and through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I felt as if my heart-strings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was breaking right in two.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I says to cousin Milly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“There must be some mistake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where’s Mistus?” “In the great house crying⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crying like her heart would break.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“And the lawyer’s there with Mistus;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Says he’s come to ’ministrate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Cause when master died he just left</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Heap of debt on the estate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“And I thought ’twould do you good</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To bid your boys good-bye⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To kiss them both and shake their hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And have a hearty cry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Oh! Chloe, I knows how you feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Cause I’se been through it all;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought my poor old heart would break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When master sold my Saul.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just then I heard the footsteps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of my children at the door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I rose right up to meet them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But I fell upon the floor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I heard poor Jakey saying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Oh, mammy, don’t you cry!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I felt my children kiss me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bid me, both, good-bye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I had a mighty sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though I nursed it all alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I wasted to a shadow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And turned to skin and bone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But one day dear Uncle Jacob</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(In heaven he’s now a saint)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said, “Your poor heart is in the fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But child you must not faint.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I said to Uncle Jacob,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If I was good like you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the heavy trouble dashed me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’d know just what to do.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then he said to me, “Poor Chloe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The way is open wide:”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he told me of the Saviour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the fountain in His side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then he said “Just take your burden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the blessed Master’s feet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I takes all my troubles, Chloe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Right unto the mercy-seat.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His words waked up my courage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I began to pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I felt my heavy burden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rolling like a stone away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And a something seemed to tell me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You will see your boys again⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that hope was like a poultice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spread upon a dreadful pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it often seemed to whisper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chloe, trust and never fear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll get justice in the kingdom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If you do not get it here.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-deliverance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Deliverance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Master only left old Mistus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One bright and handsome boy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she fairly doted on him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was her pride and joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We all liked Mister Thomas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was so kind at heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the young folks got in scrapes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He always took their part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He kept right on that very way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till he got big and tall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And old Mistus used to chide him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And say he’d spile us all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But somehow the farm did prosper</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When he took things in hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though all the servants liked him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He made them understand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One evening Mister Thomas said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Just bring my easy shoes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am going to sit by mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And read her up the news.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon I heard him tell old Mistus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“We’re bound to have a fight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we’ll whip the Yankees, mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll whip them sure as night!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I saw old Mistus tremble;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She gasped and held her breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she looked on Mister Thomas</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a face as pale as death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“They are firing on Fort Sumpter;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! I wish that I was there!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why, dear mother! what’s the matter?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You’re the picture of despair.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I was thinking, dearest Thomas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Twould break my very heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If a fierce and dreadful battle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should tear our lives apart.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“None but cowards, dearest mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would skulk unto the rear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the tyrant’s hand is shaking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the heart is holding dear.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I felt sorry for old Mistus;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She got too full to speak;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I saw the great big tear-drops</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A running down her cheek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mister Thomas too was troubled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With choosing on that night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Betwixt staying with his mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And joining in the fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon down into the village came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A call for volunteers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mistus gave up Mister Thomas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With many sighs and tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His uniform was real handsome;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He looked so brave and strong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But somehow I couldn’t help thinking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His fighting must be wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though the house was very lonesome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I thought ’twould all come right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I felt somehow or other</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We was mixed up in that fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I said to Uncle Jacob,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Now old Mistus feels the sting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For this parting with your children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is a mighty dreadful thing.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Never mind,” said Uncle Jacob,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Just wait and watch and pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I feel right sure and certain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slavery’s bound to pass away;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Because I asked the Spirit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If God is good and just,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How it happened that the masters</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did grind us to the dust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“And something reasoned right inside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such should not always be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you could not beat it out my head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Spirit spoke to me.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And his dear old eyes would brighten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his lips put on a smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saying, “Pick up faith and courage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And just wait a little while.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mistus prayed up in the parlor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the Secesh all might win;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We were praying in the cabins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wanting freedom to begin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mister Thomas wrote to Mistus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Telling ’bout the Bull’s Run fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That his troops had whipped the Yankees</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And put them all to flight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mistus’ eyes did fairly glisten;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She laughed and praised the South,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I thought some day she’d laugh</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On tother side her mouth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I used to watch old Mistus’ face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And when it looked quite long</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would say to Cousin Milly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The battle’s going wrong;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for us, but for the Rebels.⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart ’would fairly skip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Uncle Jacob used to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“The North is bound to whip.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And let the fight go as it would⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let North or South prevail⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He always kept his courage up,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And never let it fail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he often used to tell us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Children, don’t forget to pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the darkest time of morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is just ’fore the break of day.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, one morning bright and early</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We heard the fife and drum,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the booming of the cannon⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Yankee troops had come.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the word ran through the village,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The colored folks are free⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the kitchens and the cabins</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We held a jubilee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When they told us Mister Lincoln</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Said that slavery was dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We just poured our prayers and blessings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon his precious head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We just laughed, and danced, and shouted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And prayed, and sang, and cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we thought dear Uncle Jacob</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would fairly crack his side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when old Mistus heard it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She groaned and hardly spoke;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she had to lose her servants,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her heart was almost broke.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas a sight to see our people</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Going out, the troops to meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost dancing to the music,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And marching down the street.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>After years of pain and parting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our chains was broke in two,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we was so mighty happy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We didn’t know what to do.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we soon got used to freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though the way at first was rough;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we weathered through the tempest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For slavery made us tough.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we had one awful sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It almost turned my head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a mean and wicked cretur</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shot Mister Lincoln dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas a dreadful solemn morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I just staggered on my feet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the women they were crying</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And screaming in the street.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if many prayers and blessings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could bear him to the throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I should think when Mister Lincoln died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That heaven just got its own.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then we had another President⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What do you call his name?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well, if the colored folks forget him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They wouldn’t be much to blame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We thought he’d be the Moses</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of all the colored race;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when the Rebels pressed us hard</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He never showed his face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But something must have happened him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Right curi’s I’ll be bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Cause I heard ’em talking ’bout a circle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That he was swinging round.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But everything will pass away⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He went like time and tide⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the next election came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They let poor Andy slide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now we have a President,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And if I was a man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d vote for him for breaking up</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wicked Ku Klux Klan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if any man should ask me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If I would sell my vote,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d tell him I was not the one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To change and turn my coat;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If freedom seem’d a little rough</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’d weather through the gale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as to buying up my vote,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I hadn’t it for sale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I do not think I’d ever be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As slack as Jonas Handy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because I heard he sold his vote</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For just three sticks of candy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when John Thomas Reeder brought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His wife some flour and meat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And told her he had sold his vote</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For something good to eat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You ought to seen Aunt Kitty raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heard her blaze away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She gave the meat and flour a toss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And said they should not stay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I should think he felt quite cheap</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For voting the wrong side;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when Aunt Kitty scolded him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He just stood up and cried.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the worst fooled man I ever saw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was when poor David Rand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sold out for flour and sugar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sugar was mixed with sand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ll tell you how the thing got out;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His wife had company,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she thought the sand was sugar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And served it up for tea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When David sipped and sipped the tea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Somehow it didn’t taste right;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I guess when he found he was sipping sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He was mad enough to fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sugar looked so nice and white⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It was spread some inches deep⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But underneath was a lot of sand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such sugar is mighty cheap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You’d laughed to seen Lucinda Grange</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon her husband’s track;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he sold his vote for rations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She made him take ’em back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Day after day did Milly Green</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just follow after Joe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And told him if he voted wrong</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To take his rags and go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I think that Curnel Johnson said</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His side had won the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had not we women radicals</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just got right in the way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet I would not have you think</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That all our men are shabby;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’tis said in every flock of sheep</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There will be one that’s scabby.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ve heard, before election came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They tried to buy John Slade;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he gave them all to understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That he wasn’t in that trade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we’ve got lots of other men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who rally round the cause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And go for holding up the hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That gave us equal laws.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who know their freedom cost too much</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of blood and pain and treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For them to fool away their votes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For profit or for pleasure.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="aunt-chloes-politics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Aunt Chloe’s Politics</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of course, I don’t know very much</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">About these politics,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I think that some who run ’em,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do mighty ugly tricks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ve seen ’em honey-fugle round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And talk so awful sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That you’d think them full of kindness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As an egg is full of meat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now I don’t believe in looking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Honest people in the face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saying when you’re doing wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That “I haven’t sold my race.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When we want to school our children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If the money isn’t there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whether black or white have took it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The loss we all must share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this buying up each other</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is something worse than mean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though I thinks a heap of voting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I go for voting clean.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="learning-to-read" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Learning to Read</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Very soon the Yankee teachers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came down and set up school;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, oh! how the Rebs did hate it⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It was agin’ their rule.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our masters always tried to hide</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Book learning from our eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowledge didn’t agree with slavery⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Twould make us all too wise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But some of us would try to steal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A little from the book,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And put the words together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And learn by hook or crook.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I remember Uncle Caldwell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who took pot-liquor fat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And greased the pages of his book,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And hid it in his hat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And had his master ever seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The leaves upon his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’d have thought them greasy papers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But nothing to be read.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And there was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Turner’s Ben,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who heard the children spell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And picked the words right up by heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And learned to read ’em well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, the Northern folks kept sending</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Yankee teachers down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they stood right up and helped us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though Rebs did sneer and frown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, I longed to read my Bible,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For precious words it said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when I begun to learn it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Folks just shook their heads,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And said there is no use trying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! Chloe, you’re too late;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But as I was rising sixty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I had no time to wait.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So I got a pair of glasses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And straight to work I went,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never stopped till I could read</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hymns and Testament.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I got a little cabin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A place to call my own⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I felt as independent</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As the queen upon her throne.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="church-building" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Church Building</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Uncle Jacob often told us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Since freedom blessed our race</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We ought all to come together</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And build a meeting place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So we pinched, and scraped, and spared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A little here and there:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though our wages was but scanty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The church did get a share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, when the house was finished,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Uncle Jacob came to pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was looking mighty feeble,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his head was awful gray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But his voice rang like a trumpet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His eyes looked bright and young;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it seemed a mighty power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was resting on his tongue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he gave us all his blessing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Twas parting words he said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For soon we got the message</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dear old man was dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I believe he’s in the kingdom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For when we shook his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said, “Children, you must meet me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Right in the promised land;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“For when I’m done a moiling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And toiling here below,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the gate into the city</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Straightway I hope to go.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-reunion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Reunion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Well, one morning real early</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I was going down the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I heard a stranger asking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For Missis Chloe Fleet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There was a something in his voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That made me feel quite shaky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when I looked right in his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who should it be but Jakey!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I grasped him tight, and took him home⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What gladness filled my cup!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I laughed, and just rolled over,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laughed, and just give up.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Where have you been? O Jakey, dear!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why didn’t you come before?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! when you children went away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart was awful sore.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Why, mammy, I’ve been on your hunt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Since ever I’ve been free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have heard from brother Ben⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’s down in Tennessee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“He wrote me that he had a wife.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“And children?” “Yes, he’s three.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You married, too?” “Oh no, indeed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I thought I’d first get free.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Then, Jakey, you will stay with me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And comfort my poor heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Mistus got no power now</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To tear us both apart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I’m richer now than Mistus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because I have got my son;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Mister Thomas he is dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And she’s got nary one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“You must write to brother Benny</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That he must come this fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we’ll make the cabin bigger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And that will hold us all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Tell him I want to see ’em all</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before my life do cease:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, like good old Simeon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I hope to die in peace.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-thirst" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“I Thirst”</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>First Voice</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I thirst, but earth cannot allay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fever coursing through my veins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The healing stream is far away⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It flows through Salem’s lovely plains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The murmurs of its crystal flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Break ever o’er this world of strife;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart is weary, let me go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bathe it in the stream of life;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For many worn and weary hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have bathed in this pure healing stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And felt their griefs and cares depart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">E’en like some sad forgotten dream.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Second Voice</p>
					<p epub:type="epigraph">“The Word is nigh thee, even in thy heart.”</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Say not, within thy weary heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who shall ascend above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bring unto thy fever’d lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fount of joy and love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor do thou seek to vainly delve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where death’s pale angels tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear the murmur of its flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Around the silent dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Within, in thee is one living fount,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fed from the springs above;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There quench thy thirst till thou shalt bathe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In God’s own sea of love.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-queen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Queen</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“I would meet death awake.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The strength that bore her on for years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was ebbing fast away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the pale and life-worn face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death’s solemn shadows lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With tender love and gentle care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Friends gathered round her bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for her sake each footfall hushed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The echoes of its tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They knew the restlessness of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through every nerve did creep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And carefully they tried to lull</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dying Queen to sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In vain she felt Death’s icy hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her failing heart-strings shake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, rousing up, she firmly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I’d meet my God awake.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Awake, I’ve met the battle’s shock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And born the cares of state;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor shall I take your lethean cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And slumber at death’s gate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Did I not watch with eyes alert,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The path where foes did tend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shall I veil my eyes with sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To meet my God and friend?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, rather from my weary lids,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This heavy slumber shake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I may pass the mystic vale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And meet my God awake.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-tennessee-hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Tennessee Hero</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">“He had heard his comrades plotting to obtain their liberty, and rather than betray them he received 750 lashes and died.”</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>He stood before the savage throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The base and coward crew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tameless light flashed from his eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His heart beat firm and true.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was the hero of his band,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The noblest of them all;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though fetters galled his weary limbs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His spirit spurned their thrall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And towered, in its manly might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the murderous crew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! liberty had nerved his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And every pulse beat true.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Now tell us,” said the savage troop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“And life thy gain shall be!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who are the men that plotting, say⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">‘They must and will be free!’ ”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, could you have seen the hero then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As his lofty soul arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his dauntless eyes defiance flashed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On his mean and craven foes!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I know the men who would be free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are the heroes of your land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But death and torture I defy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere I betray that band.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And what! oh, what is life to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath your base control?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay! do your worst. Ye have no chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To bind my free-born soul.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They brought the hateful lash and scourge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With murder in each eye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a solemn vow was on his lips⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He had resolved to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, rather than betray his trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’d meet a death of pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas sweeter far to meet it thus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than wear a treason stain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like storms of wrath, of hate and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blows rained thick and fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the monarch soul kept true</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till the gates of life were past.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the martyr spirit fled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the throne of God on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And showed his gaping wounds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before the unslumbering eye.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="free-labor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Free Labor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I wear an easy garment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er it no toiling slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wept tears of hopeless anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In his passage to the grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from its ample folds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall rise no cry to God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon its warp and woof shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No stain of tears and blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, lightly shall it press my form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unladened with a sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not ’mid its rustling hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some sad despairing cry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This fabric is too light to bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The weight of bondsmen’s tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not in its texture trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The agony of years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Too light to bear a smother’d sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From some lorn woman’s heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose only wreath of household love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is rudely torn apart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then lightly shall it press my form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unburden’d by a sigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from its seams and folds shall rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No voice to pierce the sky,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And witness at the throne of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In language deep and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I have nerv’d Oppression’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For deeds of guilt and wrong.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At the Portals of the Future,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Full of madness, guilt and gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood the hateful form of Slavery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crying, Give, Oh! give me room⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Room to smite the earth with cursing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Room to scatter, rend and slay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the trembling mother’s bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Room to tear her child away;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Room to trample on the manhood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the country far and wide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Room to spread o’er every Eden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slavery’s scorching lava-tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pale and trembling stood the Future,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quailing ’neath his frown of hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he grasped with bloody clutches</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The great keys of Doom and Fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In his hand he held a banner</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All festooned with blood and tears:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas a fearful ensign, woven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the grief and wrong of years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On his brow he wore a helmet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Decked with strange and cruel art;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every jewel was a life-drop</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wrung from some poor broken heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though her cheek was pale and anxious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet, with look and brow sublime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the pale and trembling Future</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood the Crisis of our time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from many a throbbing bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came the words in fear and gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us, Oh! thou coming Crisis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What shall be our country’s doom?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall the wings of dark destruction</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brood and hover o’er our land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till we trace the steps of ruin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By their blight, from strand to strand?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With a look and voice prophetic</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spake the solemn Crisis then:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have only mapped the future</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the erring sons of men.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If ye strive for Truth and Justice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If ye battle for the Right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye shall lay your hands all strengthened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On God’s robe of love and light;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if ye trample on His children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To his ear will float each groan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jar the cords that bind them to Him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And they’ll vibrate at his throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the land that forges fetters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Binds the weak and poor in chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must in blood or tears of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wash away her guilty stains.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dismissal-of-tyng" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Dismissal of Tyng</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“We have but three words to say, ‘served him right.’ ”</p>
					<cite><i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Church Journal</i> (Episcopal)</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Served him right! How could he dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To touch the idol of our day?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What if its shrine be red with blood?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why, let him turn his eyes away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who dares dispute our right to bind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With galling chains the weak and poor?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To starve and crush the deathless mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or hunt the slave from door to door?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who dares dispute our right to sell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mother from her weeping child?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hush with ruthless stripes and blows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her shrieks and sobs of anguish wild?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis right to plead for heathen lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To send the Bible to their shores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then to make, for power and pelf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A race of heathens at our doors.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What holy horror filled our hearts⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It shook our church from dome to nave⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our cheeks grew pale with pious dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To hear him breathe the name of slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Upon our Zion, fair and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His words fell like a fearful blight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We turned him from our saintly fold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And this we did to “serve him right.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-slave-mother-a-tale-of-the-ohio" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Slave Mother</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Tale of the Ohio</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I have but four, the treasures of my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They lay like doves around my heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tremble lest some cruel hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should tear my household wreaths apart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My baby girl, with childish glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Looks curious in my anxious eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She little knows that for her sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deep shadows round my spirit lie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My playful boys could I forget,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My home might seem a joyous spot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with their sunshine mirth I blend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The darkness of their future lot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thou my babe, my darling one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My last, my loved, my precious child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! when I think upon thy doom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart grows faint and then throbs wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Ohio’s bridged and spanned with ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The northern star is shining bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll take the nestlings of my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And search for freedom by its light.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Winter and night were on the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And feebly moaned the shivering trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sigh of winter seemed to run</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through every murmur of the breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She fled, and with her children all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She reached the stream and crossed it o’er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright visions of deliverance came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like dreams of plenty to the poor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dreams! vain dreams, heroic mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Give all thy hopes and struggles o’er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pursuer is on thy track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the hunter at thy door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Judea’s refuge cities had power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To shelter, shield and save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E’en Rome had altars: ’neath whose shade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might crouch the wan and weary slave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Ohio had no sacred fane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To human rights so consecrate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where thou may’st shield thy hapless ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From their darkly gathering fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, said the mournful mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If Ohio cannot save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will do a deed for freedom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She shall find each child a grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I will save my precious children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From their darkly threatened doom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will hew their path to freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the portals of the tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A moment in the sunlight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She held a glimmering knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The next moment she had bathed it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the crimson fount of life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They snatched away the fatal knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her boys shrieked wild with dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The baby girl was pale and cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They raised it up, the child was dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sends this deed of fearful daring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through my country’s heart no thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do the icy hands of slavery</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Every pure emotion chill?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! if there is any honor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Truth or justice in the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will ye not, as men and Christians,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the side of freedom stand?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rizpah-the-daughter-of-ai" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rizpah, the Daughter of Ai</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Tidings! sad tidings for the daughter of Ai,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are bearing her prince and loved away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Destruction falls like a mournful pall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the fallen house of ill-fated Saul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Rizpah hears that her loved must die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she hears it all with a tearless eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And clasping her hand with grief and dread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She meekly bows her queenly head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blood has left her blanching cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her quivering lips refuse to speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! grief like hers has learned no tone⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A world of grief is all its own.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the deed is done, and the hand is stay’d</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That havoc among the brethren made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Rizpah takes her lowly seat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To watch the princely dead at her feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The jackal crept out with a stealthy tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To batten and feast on the noble dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vulture bore down with a heavy wing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dip his beak in life’s stagnant spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hyena heard the jackal’s howl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he bounded forth with a sullen growl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Rizpah’s shriek rose on the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a tone from the caverns of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sprang from her sad and lowly seat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a moment her heart forgot to beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blood rushed up to her marble cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a flash to her eye so sad and meek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The vulture paused in his downward flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As she raised her form to its queenly height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hyena’s eye had a horrid glare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he turned again to his desert lair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The jackal slunk back with a quickened tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his cowardly search of Rizpah’s dead;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unsated he turned from the noble prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Subdued by a glance of the daughter of Ai.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh grief! that a mother’s heart should know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a weary weight of consuming woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For seldom if ever earth has known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such love as the daughter of Ai hath known.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ruth-and-naomi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ruth and Naomi</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Turn my daughters, full of woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is my heart so sad and lone?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leave me children⁠—I would go</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To my loved and distant home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From my bosom death has torn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Husband, children, all my stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Left me not a single one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For my life’s declining day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Want and woe surround my way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grief and famine where I tread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my native land they say</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God is giving Jacob bread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Naomi ceased, her daughters wept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their yearning hearts were filled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Falling upon her withered neck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their grief in tears distill’d.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like rain upon a blighted tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tears of Orpah fell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissing the pale and quivering lip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She breathed her sad farewell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Ruth stood up, on her brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There lay a heavenly calm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from her lips came, soft and low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words like a holy charm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I will not leave thee, on thy brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are lines of sorrow, age and care;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy form is bent, thy step is slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy bosom stricken, lone and sear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! when thy heart and home were glad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I freely shared thy joyous lot;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now that heart is lone and sad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cease to entreat⁠—I’ll leave thee not.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! if a lofty palace proud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy future home shall be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where sycophants around thee crowd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ll share that home with thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if on earth the humblest spot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy future home shall prove;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll bring into thy lonely lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wealth of woman’s love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go where thou wilt, my steps are there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our path in life is one;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast no lot I will not share,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Till life itself be done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My country and my home for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I freely, willingly resign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy people shall my people be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy God he shall be mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, mother dear, entreat me not</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To turn from following thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart is nerved to share thy lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whatever that may be.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-jewish-grandfathers-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Jewish Grandfather’s Story</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come, gather around me, children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a story I will tell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How we builded the beautiful temple⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The temple we love so well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I must date my story backward</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To a distant age and land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When God did break our fathers’ chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By his mighty outstretched hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our fathers were strangers and captives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the ancient Nile doth flow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smitten by cruel taskmasters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And burdened by toil and woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As a shepherd, to pastures green</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doth lead with care his sheep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So God divided the great Red Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And led them through the deep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You’ve seen me plant a tender vine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And guard it with patient care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till its roots struck in the mellow earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And it drank the light and air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So God did plant our chosen race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a vine in this fair land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we grew and spread a fruitful tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The planting of his right hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The time would fail strove I to tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the story of our race⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of our grand old leader, Moses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Joshua in his place,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of all our rulers and judges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Joshua unto Saul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over whose doomed and guilty head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fell ruin and death’s dark pall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of valiant Jephthah, whose brave heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sudden grief did bow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When his daughter came with dance and song</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unconscious of his vow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of Gideon, lifting up his voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To him who rules the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wringing out his well drenched fleece,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When all around was dry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How Deborah, ’neath her spreading palms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A judge in Israel rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wrested victory from the hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Jacob’s heathen foes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of Samuel, an upright judge.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The last who ruled our tribes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose noble life and cleanly hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were pure and free from bribes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of David, with his checkered life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our tuneful minstrel king,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who breathed in sadness and delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The psalms we love to sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of Solomon, whose wandering heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Jacob’s God did stray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cast the richest gifts of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In pleasure’s cup away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How aged men advised his son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But found him weak and vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the kingdom from his hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was rudely rent in twain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! sin and strife are fearful things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They widen as they go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leave behind them shades of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And open gates of woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A trail of guilt, a gloomy line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ran through our nation’s life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wicked kings provoked our God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sin and woe were rife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At length, there came a day of doom⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A day of grief and dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When judgment like a fearful storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swept o’er our country’s head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we were captives many years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where Babel’s stream doth flow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With harps unstrung, on willows hung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We wept in silent woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We could not sing the old, sweet songs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our captors asked to hear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our hearts were full, how could we sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The songs to us so dear?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As one who dreams a mournful dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which fades, as wanes the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So God did change our gloomy lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From darkness into light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Belshazzar in his regal halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A sumptuous feast did hold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He praised his gods and drank his wine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From sacred cups of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When dance and song and revelry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had filled with mirth each hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Belshazzar raised his eyes and saw</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A writing on the wall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He saw, and horror blanched his cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His lips were white with fear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To read the words he quickly called</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For wise men, far and near.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But baffled seers, with anxious doubt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood silent in the room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Daniel came, a captive youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And read the words of doom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That night, within his regal hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Belshazzar lifeless lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Persians grasped his fallen crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And with the Mede held sway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Darius came, and Daniel rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A man of high renown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But wicked courtiers schemed and planned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To drag the prophet down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They came as men who wished to place</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Great honors on their king⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With flattering lips and oily words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Desired a certain thing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They knew that Daniel, day by day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Towards Salem turned his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And asked the king to sign a law</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His hands might not erase.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That till one moon had waned away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No cherished wish or thing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should any ask of men or Gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unless it were the king.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Daniel, full of holy trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His windows opened wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Regardless of the king’s command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto his God he cried.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They brought him forth that he might be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hungry lion’s meat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awe struck, the lions turned away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And crouched anear his feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The God he served was strong to save</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His servant in the den;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fate devised for Daniel’s life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er took those scheming men.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Cyrus came, a gracious king,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gave the blest command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That we, the scattered Jews, should build</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Anew our fallen land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The men who hated Judah’s weal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were filled with bitter rage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’gainst the progress of our work</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did evil men engage.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sanballat tried to hinder us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Gashmu uttered lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But like a thing of joy and light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We saw our temple rise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from the tower of Hananeel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto the corner gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We built the wall and did restore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The places desolate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some mocked us as we labored on</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And scoffingly did say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“If but a fox climb on the wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their work will give away.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Nehemiah wrought in hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though heathen foes did frown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“My work is great,” he firmly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“And I cannot come down.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when Shemai counselled him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The temple door to close,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hide, lest he should fall a prey</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto his cruel foes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strong in his faith, he answered, “No,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He would oppose the tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should such as he from danger flee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in the temple hide?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We wrought in earnest faith and hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until we built the wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, unto a joyful feast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did priest and people call.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We came to dedicate the wall</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sacrifice and joy⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A happy throng, from aged sire</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto the fair-haired boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our lips so used to mournful songs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did joyous laughter fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And strong men wept with sacred joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To stand on Zion’s hill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mid scoffing foes and evil men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We built our city blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’neath our sheltering vines and palms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To-day in peace we rest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="out-in-the-cold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Out in the Cold</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Out in the cold mid the dreary night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the eaves of homes so bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snowflakes falling o’er mother’s grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will no one rescue, no one save?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A child left out in the dark and cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lamb not sheltered in any fold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hearing the wolves of hunger bark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out in the cold! and out in the dark.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Missing to-night the charming bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That lies in the mother’s good-night kiss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hearing no loving father’s prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For blessings his children all may share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Creeping away to some wretched den,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sleep mid the curses of drunken men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And women, not as God has made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrecked and ruined, wronged and betrayed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Church of the Lord reach out thy arm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shield the hapless one from harm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the waves of sin are dashing wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rescue and save the drifting child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wash from her life guilt’s turbid foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the fair haven of a home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tenderly lead the motherless girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up to the gates of purest pearl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wandering feet which else had strayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From thorny paths may yet be stayed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a crimson track through the cold dark night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May exchange to a line of loving light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="save-the-boys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Save the Boys</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Like Dives in the deeps of Hell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cannot break this fearful spell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor quench the fires I’ve madly nursed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor cool this dreadful raging thirst.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take back your pledge⁠—ye come too late!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ye cannot save me from my fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor bring me back departed joys;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ye can try to save the boys.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye bid me break my fiery chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arise and be a man again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When every street with snares is spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nets of sin where’er I tread.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No; I must reap as I did sow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The seeds of sin bring crops of woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with my latest breath I’ll crave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That ye will try the boys to save.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These bloodshot eyes were once so bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This sin-crushed heart was glad and light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But by the wine-cup’s ruddy glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I traced a path to shame and woe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A captive to my galling chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve tried to rise, but tried in vain⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cup allures and then destroys.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! from its thraldom save the boys.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take from your streets those traps of hell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into whose gilded snares I fell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! freemen, from these foul decoys</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arise, and vote to save the boys.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh ye who license men to trade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In draughts that charm and then degrade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before ye hear the cry, Too late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, save the boys from my sad fate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nothing-and-something" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nothing and Something</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is nothing to me, the beauty said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a careless toss of her pretty head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man is weak if he can’t refrain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the cup you say is fraught with pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was something to her in after years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When her eyes were drenched with burning tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she watched in lonely grief and dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And startled to hear a staggering tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is nothing to me, the mother said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have no fear that my boy will tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the downward path of sin and shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crush my heart and darken his name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was something to her when that only son</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the path of right was early won,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And madly cast in the flowing bowl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A ruined body and sin-wrecked soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is nothing to me, the young man cried:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his eye was a flash of scorn and pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heed not the dreadful things ye tell:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I can rule myself I know full well.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was something to him when in prison he lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The victim of drink, life ebbing away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought of his wretched child and wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the mournful wreck of his wasted life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is nothing to me, the merchant said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As over his ledger he bent his head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m busy to-day with tare and tret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have no time to fume and fret.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was something to him when over the wire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A message came from a funeral pyre⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A drunken conductor had wrecked a train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his wife and child were among the slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is nothing to me, the voter said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The party’s loss is my greatest dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then gave his vote for the liquor trade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though hearts were crushed and drunkards made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was something to him in after life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When his daughter became a drunkard’s wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her hungry children cried for bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And trembled to hear their father’s tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is it nothing for us to idly sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the cohorts of death their vigils keep?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To gather the young and thoughtless in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grind in our midst a grist of sin?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is something, yes, all, for us to stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clasping by faith our Saviour’s hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To learn to labor, live and fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the side of God and changeless light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="wanderers-return" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wanderer’s Return</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My home is so glad, my heart is so light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My wandering boy has returned to-night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is blighted and bruised, I know, by sin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I am so glad to welcome him in.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The child of my tenderest love and care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has broken away from the tempter’s snare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-night my heart is o’erflowing with joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have found again my wandering boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart has been wrung with a thousand fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mine eyes been drenched with the bitterest tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like shadows that fade are my past alarms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My boy is enclasped in his mother’s arms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The streets were not safe for my darling child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where sin with its evil attractions smiled.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his wandering feet have ceased to roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to-night my wayward boy is at home⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At home with the mother that loves him best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the hearts that have ached with sad unrest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the hearts that are thrilling with untold joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because we have found our wandering boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In that wretched man so haggard and wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I only behold my returning child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blissful tears from my eyes that start</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are the overflow of a happy heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have trodden the streets in lonely grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have sought in prayer for my sole relief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the depths of my heart to-night are stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know that the mother’s prayer has been heard.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If the mother-love be so strong and great</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her child, sin-weary and desolate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh what must the love of the Father be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For souls who have wandered like you and me!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fishers-of-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Fishers of Men”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I had a dream, a varied dream:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before my ravished sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The city of my Lord arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With all its love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The music of a myriad harps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flowed out with sweet accord;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saints were casting down their crowns</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In homage to our Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart leaped up with untold joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life’s toil and pain were o’er;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My weary feet at last had found</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bright and restful shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just as I reached the gates of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ready to enter in,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From earth arose a fearful cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of sorrow and of sin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I turned, and saw behind me surge</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A wild and stormy sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And drowning men were reaching out</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Imploring hands to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ev’ry lip was blanched with dread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And moaning for relief;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The music of the golden harps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grew fainter for their grief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let me return, I quickly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Close to the pearly gate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My work is with these wretched ones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So wrecked and desolate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An angel smiled and gently said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This is the gate of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wilt thou return to earth’s sad scenes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its weariness and strife,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To comfort hearts that sigh and break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To dry the falling tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wilt thou forego the music sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Entrancing now thy ear?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I must return, I firmly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The struggles in that sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall not reach out beseeching hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain for help to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I turned to go; but as I turned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gloomy sea grew bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from my heart there seemed to flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ten thousand cords of light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sin-wrecked men, with eager hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did grasp each golden cord;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with my heart I drew them on</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To see my gracious Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again I stood beside the gate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart was glad and free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For with me stood a rescued throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Lord had given me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="signing-the-pledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Signing the Pledge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see this cup⁠—this tempting cup⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its sparkle and its glow?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tell you this cup has brought to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A world of shame and woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see that woman sad and wan?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One day with joy and pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With orange blossoms in her hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I claimed her as my bride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And vowed that I would faithful prove</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till death our lives should part;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve drenched her soul with floods of grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And almost crushed her heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see that gray-haired mother bend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath her weight of years?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve filled that aged mother’s eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With many bitter tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Year after year for me she prays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And tries her child to save;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve almost brought her gray hairs down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In sorrow to the grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see that boy whose wistful eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are gazing on my face?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve overshadowed his young life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sorrow and disgrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He used to greet me with a smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His heart was light and glad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve seen him tremble at my voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ve made that heart so sad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see this pledge I’ve signed to-night?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My mother, wife, and boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall read my purpose on that pledge</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And smile through tears of joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To know this night, this very night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I cast the wine-cup down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the dust of a sinful life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lift up my manhood’s crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The faded face of my young wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With roses yet shall bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And joy shall light my mother’s eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the margin of the tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have vowed to-night my only boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With brow so fair and mild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall not be taunted on the streets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And called a drunkard’s child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Never again shall that young face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whiten with grief and dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because I’ve madly staggered home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sold for drink his bread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This strong right arm unnerved by rum</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall battle with my fate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And peace and comfort crown the home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By drink made desolate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like a drowning man, tempest-tossed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clings to a rocky ledge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With trembling hands I’ve learned to grasp</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gospel and the pledge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A captive bounding from my chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’ve rent each hateful band,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And by the help of grace divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A victor hope to stand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="25th-anniversary-of-the-old-folks-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">25th Anniversary of the “Old Folks’ Home”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We come, but not to celebrate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amid the flight and whirl of years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The deeds of heroes, on whose brows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are laurels, drenched with blood and tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nor yet to tell of wondrous deeds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Performed on fields of bloodless strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of the lovely, precious things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That bless and beautify our life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from the annals of the poor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We would unfold a shining page;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell of kindly hands that smoothed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rugged path of faltering age.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To shelter those who long have borne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life’s chilling storms and searching heat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In restful homes, with love alight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What charity more pure and sweet?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But not beneath this spacious Home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was laid the first foundation stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the hearts that learned to feel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For woman, stricken, old and lone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To Hall and Truman, Still and Laing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was given power to aid and bless;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, faithful to her sacred charge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Constant and helping, stood Ann Jess.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>May Sarah Pennock, whose kind hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has often brought the “Home” relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feel life replete with God’s great peace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Find light in darkness, joy in grief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Custodian of the generous purse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May Israel Johnson long remain;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And reach at last the happy land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where faithful service meets its gain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And join again departed forms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wife and sister passed before;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who gave their treasure to the Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By generous gifts unto His poor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And some who met with us erewhile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have passed unto the other side;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like precious fragrance, may their deeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within our heart of hearts abide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Year after year, within these halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did Dillwyn Parrish faithful stand;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till He “who gives his loved ones sleep”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Released, in death, his helpful hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of those who scattered flowers fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around the verge of parting life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We would record with grateful words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The names of Stephen Smith and wife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whose hands, enriched with golden store,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gave of their wealth to build this “Home,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And changed a narrow domicile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a grand and stately dome.—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! when our earthly homes shall fail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And vanish from our fading sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May friends and patrons meet again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In God's fair halls of love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where homeless ones shall never weep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor weary aged wanderers roam;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But walk amid the golden streets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Secure within our Father's home.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-fairer-hope-a-brighter-morn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Fairer Hope, a Brighter Morn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>From the peaceful heights of a higher life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard your maddening cry of strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It quivered with anguish, wrath and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a demon struggling with his chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A chain of evil, heavy and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rusted with ages of fearful wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Encrusted with blood and burning tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chain I had worn and dragged for years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It clasped my limbs, but it bound your heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And formed of your life a fearful part;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sowed the wind, but could not control</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tempest wild of a guilty soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You saw me stand with my broken chain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forged in the furnace of fiery pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You saw my children around me stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lovingly clasping my unbound hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But you remembered my blood and tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mid the weary wasting flight of years.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You thought of the rice swamps, lone and dank,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When my heart in hopless anguish sank.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You thought of your fields with harvest white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where I toiled in pain from morn till night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You thought of the days you bought and sold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The children I loved, for paltry gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You thought of our shrieks that rent the air—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our moans of anguish and deep despair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With chattering teeth and paling face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You thought of your nation’s deep disgrace,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You wove from your fears a fearful fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To spring from your seeds of scorn and hate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You imagined the saddest, wildest thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That time, with revenges fierce, could bring</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cry you thought from a Voodoo breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was the echo of your soul’s unrest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thoughts too sad for fruitless tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loomed like the ghosts of avenging years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, prophet of evil, could not your voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In our new hopes and freedom rejoice?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mid the light which streams around our way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was there naught to see but an evil day?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nothing but vengeance, wrath and hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the serpent coils of an evil fate—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fate that shall crush and drag you down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A doom that shall press like an iron crown?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A fate that shall crisp and curl your hair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And darken your faces now so fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And send through your veins like a poisoned flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hated stream of the Negro’s blood?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A fate to madden the heart and brain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve peopled with phantoms of dread and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fancies wild of your daughter’s shriek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Congo kisses upon her cheek?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beyond the mist of your gloomy fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the promise of brighter years.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the dark I see their golden hem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my heart gives out its glad amen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The banner of Christ was your sacred trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you trailed that banner in the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mockingly told us amid our pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hand of your God had forged our chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We stumbled and groped through the dreary night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till our fingers touched God’s robe of light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we knew He heard, from his lofty throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our saddest cries and faintest moan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cross you have covered with sin and shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll bear aloft in Christ’s holy name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, never again may its folds be furled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While sorrow and sin enshroud our world!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God, to whose fingers thrills each heart beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has not sent us to walk with aimless feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cower and crouch, with bated breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From margins of life to shores of death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Higher and better than hate for hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the scorpion fangs that desolate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the hope of a brighter, fairer morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a peace and a love that shall yet be born;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the Negro shall hold an honored place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The friend and helper of every race;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His mission to build and not destroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gladden the world with love and joy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-martyr-of-alabama" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Martyr of Alabama</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>The following news item appeared in the newspapers throughout the country, issue of December 27th, 1894:</p>
					<p>“Tim Thompson, a little negro boy, was asked to dance for the amusement of some white toughs. He refused, saying he was a church member. One of the men knocked him down with a club and then danced upon his prostrate form. He then shot the boy in the hip. The boy is dead: his murderer is still at large.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>He lifted up his pleading eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And scanned each cruel face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where cold and brutal cowardice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had left its evil trace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was when tender memories</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round Beth’lem’s manger lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mothers told their little ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Jesu’s natal day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And of the Magi from the East</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who came their gifts to bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bow in rev’rence at the feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Salem’s new-born King.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And how the herald angels sang</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The choral song of peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That war should close his wrathful lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And strife and carnage cease.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At such an hour men well may hush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their discord and their strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er that manger clasp their hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With gifts to brighten life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas! that in our favored land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That cruelty and crime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should cast their shadows o’er a day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fairest pearl of time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A dark-browed boy had drawn anear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A band of savage men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just as a hapless lamb might stray</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into a tiger’s den.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cruel and dull, they saw in him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For sport an evil chance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then demanded of the child</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To give to them a dance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Come dance for us,” the rough men said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I can’t,” the child replied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I cannot for the dear Lord’s sake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who for my sins once died.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though they were strong and he was weak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He wouldn’t his Lord deny.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His life lay in their cruel hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But he for Christ could die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heard they aright? Did that brave child</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their mandates dare resist?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did he against their stern commands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have courage to resist?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then recklessly a man (?) arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dealt a fearful blow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He crushed the portals of that life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laid the brave child low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And trampled on his prostrate form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As on a broken toy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then danced with careless, brutal feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon the murdered boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Christians! behold that martyred child!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His blood cries from the ground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the sleepless eye of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He shows each gaping wound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! Church of Christ arise! arise!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lest crimson stain thy hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When God shall inquisition make</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For blood shed in the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take sackcloth of the darkest hue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And shroud the pulpits round;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Servants of him who cannot lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sit mourning on the ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let holy horror blanch each brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pale every cheek with fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rocks and stones, if ye could speak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye well might melt to tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through every fane send forth a cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of sorrow and regret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor in an hour of careless ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy brother’s wrongs forget.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Veil not thine eyes, nor close thy lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor speak with bated breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This evil shall not always last⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The end of it is death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Avert the doom that crime must bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon a guilty land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong in the strength that God supplies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For truth and justice stand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Christless men, with reckless hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are sowing round thy path</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tempests wild that yet shall break</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In whirlwinds of God’s wrath.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-night-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Night of Death</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas a night of dreadful horror⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death was sweeping through the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wings of dark destruction</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were outstretched from strand to strand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strong men’s hearts grew faint with terror,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As the tempest and the waves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrecked their homes and swept them downward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Suddenly to yawning graves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Mid the wastes of ruined households,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tempest’s wild alarms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood a terror-stricken mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a child within her arms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Other children huddled ’round her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each one nestling in her heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift in thought and swift in action,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She at least from one must part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then she said unto her daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Strive to save one child from death.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Which one?” said the anxious daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As she stood with bated breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! the anguish of that mother;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What despair was in her eye!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All her little ones were precious;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which one should she leave to die?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then outspake the brother Bennie:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“I will take the little one.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“No,” exclaimed the anxious mother;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“No, my child, it can’t be done.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“See! my boy, the waves are rising,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Save yourself and leave the child!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I will trust in Christ,” he answered;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grasped the little one and smiled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through the roar of wind and waters</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever and anon she cried;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But throughout the night of terror</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never Bennie’s voice replied.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But above the waves’ wild surging</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He had found a safe retreat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if God had sent an angel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just to guide his wandering feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the storm had spent its fury,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the sea gave up its dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was mourning for her loved ones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lost amid that night of dread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While her head was bowed in anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On her ear there fell a voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bringing surcease to her sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bidding all her heart rejoice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Didn’t I tell you true?” said Bennie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his eyes were full of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“When I told you God would help me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the dark and dreadful night?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he placed the little darling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Safe within his mother’s arms.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feeling Christ had been his guardian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Mid the dangers and alarms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! for faith so firm and precious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the darkest, saddest night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till life’s gloom-encircled shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fade in everlasting light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And upon the mount of vision</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We our loved and lost shall greet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With earth’s wildest storms behind us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And its cares beneath our feet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mothers-treasures" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother’s Treasures</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Two little children sit by my side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I call them Lily and Daffodil;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gaze on them with a mother’s pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">One is Edna, the other is Will.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Both have eyes of starry light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laughing lips o’er teeth of pearl.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would not change for a diadem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My noble boy and darling girl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To-night my heart o’erflows with joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I hold them as a sacred trust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fain would hide them in my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Safe from tarnish of moth and rust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What should I ask for my dear boy?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The richest gifts of wealth or fame?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What for my girl? A loving heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a fair and a spotless name?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What for my boy? That he should stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A pillar of strength to the state?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What for my girl? That she should be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The friend of the poor and desolate?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I do not ask they shall never tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With weary feet the paths of pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ask that in the darkest hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They may faithful and true remain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I only ask their lives may be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pure as gems in the gates of pearl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lives to brighten and bless the world⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This I ask for my boy and girl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I ask to clasp their hands again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Mid the holy hosts of heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enraptured say: “I am here, oh! God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the children Thou hast given.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-refiners-gold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Refiner’s Gold</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood before my heart’s closed door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And asked to enter in;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I had barred the passage o’er</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By unbelief and sin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He came with nail-prints in his hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To set my spirit free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wounded feet he trod a path</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To come and sup with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He found me poor and brought me gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fire of love had tried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And garments whitened by his blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My wretchedness to hide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The glare of life had dimmed my eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its glamour was too bright.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He came with ointment in his hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To heal my darkened sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He knew my heart was tempest-tossed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By care and pain oppressed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He whispered to my burdened heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come unto me and rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He found me weary, faint and worn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On barren mountains cold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With love’s constraint he drew me on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To shelter in his fold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! foolish heart, how slow wert thou</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To welcome thy dear guest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To change thy weariness and care</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For comfort, peace and rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Close to his side, oh! may I stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just to behold his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till I shall wear within my soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image of his grace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The grace that changes hearts of stone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To tenderness and love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bids us run with willing feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto his courts above.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-story-of-the-rebellion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Story of the Rebellion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The treacherous sands had caught our boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And held it with a strong embrace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And death at our imprisoned crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was sternly looking face to face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With anxious hearts, but failing strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We strove to push the boat from shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all in vain, for there we lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With bated breath and useless oar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Around us in a fearful storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fiery hail fell thick and fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we engirded by the sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could not return the dreadful blast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When one arose upon whose brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ardent sun had left his trace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A noble purpose strong and high</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Uplighting all his dusky face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Perchance within that fateful hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wrongs of ages thronged apace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with it came the glorious hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of swift deliverance to his race.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of galling chains asunder rent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of severed hearts again made one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of freedom crowning all the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through battles gained and victories won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Some one,” our hero firmly said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Must die to get us out of this;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then leaped upon the strand and bared</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His bosom to the bullets’ hiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“But ye are soldiers, and can fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May win in battles yet unfought;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have no offering but my life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And if they kill me it is nought.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With steady hands he grasped the boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And boldly pushed it from the shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then fell by rebel bullets pierced,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His life work grandly, nobly o’er.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our boat was rescued from the sands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And launched in safety on the tide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he our comrade good and grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In our defence had bravely died.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="burial-of-sarah" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Burial of Sarah</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He stood before the sons of Heth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bowed his sorrowing head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I’ve come,” he said, “to buy a place</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where I may lay my dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I am a stranger in your land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My home has lost its light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grant me a place where I may lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My dead away from sight.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then tenderly the sons of Heth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gazed on the mourner’s face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And said, “Oh, Prince, amid our dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Choose thou her resting-place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“The sepulchres of those we love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We place at thy command;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the plea thy grief hath made</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We close not heart nor hand.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The patriarch rose and bowed his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And said, “One place I crave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis at the end of Ephron’s field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And called Machpelah’s cave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Entreat him that he sell to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For her last sleep that cave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not ask for her I loved</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The freedom of a grave.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The son of Zohar answered him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Hearken, my lord, to me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before our sons, the field and cave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I freely give to thee.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I will not take it as a gift,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The grand old man then said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I pray thee let me buy the place</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where I may lay my dead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And with the promise in his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His seed should own that land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gave the shekels for the field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He took from Ephron’s hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And saw afar the glorious day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His chosen seed should tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soil where he in sorrow lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His loved and cherished dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="going-east" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Going East</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She came from the East a fair, young bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a light and a bounding heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find in the distant West a home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With her husband to make a start.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He builded his cabin far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the prairie flower bloomed wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her love made lighter all his toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And joy and hope around him smiled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She plied her hands to life’s homely tasks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And helped to build his fortunes up;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While joy and grief, like bitter and sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were mingled and mixed in her cup.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He sowed in his fields of golden grain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the strength of his manly prime;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor music of birds, nor brooks, nor bees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was as sweet as the dollar’s chime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She toiled and waited through weary years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the fortune that came at length;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But toil and care and hope deferred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had stolen and wasted her strength.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cabin changed to a stately home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rich carpets were hushing her tread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But light was fading from her eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the bloom from her cheek had fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her husband was adding field to field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And new wealth to his golden store;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And little thought the shadow of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was entering in at his door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Slower and heavier grew her step,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While his gold and his gains increased;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his proud domain had not the charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of her humble home in the East.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had no line to sound the depths</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of her tears repressed and unshed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor dreamed ’mid plenty a human heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could be starving, but not for bread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Within her eye was a restless light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a yearning that never ceased,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A longing to see the dear old home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She had left in the distant East.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A longing to clasp her mother’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And nestle close to her heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to feel the heavy cares of life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like the sun-kissed shadows depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hungry heart was stilled at last;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its restless, baffled yearning ceased.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lonely man sat by the bier</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a corpse that was going East.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-hermits-sacrifice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Hermit’s Sacrifice</h2>
			<p>
				<span>From Rome’s palaces and villas</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gaily issued forth a throng;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From her humbler habitations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Moved a human tide along.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Haughty dames and blooming maidens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Men who knew not mercy’s sway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thronged into the Colosseum</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On that Roman holiday.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the lonely wilds of Asia,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From her jungles far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the distant torrid regions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rome had gathered beasts of prey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lions restless, roaring, rampant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tigers with their stealthy tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leopards bright, and fierce, and fiery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Met in conflict wild and dread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fierce and fearful was the carnage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the maddened beasts of prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they fought and rent each other</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Urged by men more fierce than they.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Till like muffled thunders breaking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On a vast and distant shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fainter grew the yells of tigers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the lions’ dreadful roar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the crimson-stained arena</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay the victims of the fight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eyes which once had glared with anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lost in death their baleful light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then uprose the gladiators</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Armed for conflict unto death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waiting for the prefect’s signal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cold and stern with bated breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“<i xml:lang="la">Ave Caesar, morituri</i>,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1"><i xml:lang="la">Te, salutant</i>,” rose the cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the lips of men ill-fated,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doomed to suffer and to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then began the dreadful contest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lives like chaff were thrown away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rome with all her pride and power</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Butchered for a holiday.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Eagerly the crowd were waiting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Loud the clashing sabres rang,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When between the gladiators</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All unarmed a hermit sprang.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Cease your bloodshed,” cried the hermit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“On this carnage place your ban;”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with flashing swords they answered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Back unto your place, old man.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From their path the gladiators</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thrust the strange intruder back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who between their hosts advancing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Calmly parried their attack.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All undaunted by their weapons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stood the old heroic man;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While a maddened cry of anger</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the vast assembly ran.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Down with him,” cried out the people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As with thumbs unbent they glared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the prefect gave the signal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That his life should not be spared.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Men grew wild with wrathful passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When his fearless words were said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cruelly they fiercely showered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stones on his devoted head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bruised and bleeding fell the hermit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Victor in that hour of strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaining in his death a triumph</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That he could not win in life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Had he uttered on the forum</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Struggling thoughts within him born,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men had jeered his words as madness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But his deed they could not scorn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not in vain had been his courage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor for naught his daring deed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his grave his mangled body</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did for wretched captives plead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From that hour Rome, grown more thoughtful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ceased her sport in human gore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And into her Colosseum</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gladiators came no more.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="songs-for-the-people" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Songs for the People</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Let me make the songs for the people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Songs for the old and young;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Songs to stir like a battle-cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wherever they are sung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not for the clashing of sabres,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For carnage nor for strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But songs to thrill the hearts of men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With more abundant life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let me make the songs for the weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid life’s fever and fret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till hearts shall relax their tension,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And careworn brows forget.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let me sing for little children,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before their footsteps stray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet anthems of love and duty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To float o’er life’s highway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I would sing for the poor and aged,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When shadows dim their sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the bright and restful mansions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where there shall be no night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our world, so worn and weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Needs music, pure and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hush the jangle and discords</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of sorrow, pain, and wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Music to soothe all its sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till war and crime shall cease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hearts of men grown tender</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Girdle the world with peace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-appeal-to-my-countrywomen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Appeal to My Countrywomen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You can sigh o’er the sad-eyed Armenian</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who weeps in her desolate home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can mourn o’er the exile of Russia</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From kindred and friends doomed to roam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You can pity the men who have woven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From passion and appetite chains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To coil with a terrible tension</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around their heartstrings and brains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You can sorrow o’er little children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Disinherited from their birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wee waifs and toddlers neglected,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Robbed of sunshine, music and mirth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For beasts you have gentle compassion;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your mercy and pity they share.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the wretched, outcast and fallen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You have tenderness, love and care.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But hark! from our Southland are floating</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sobs of anguish, murmurs of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And women heart-stricken are weeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over their tortured and their slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On their brows the sun has left traces;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shrink not from their sorrow in scorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they entered the threshold of being</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The children of a King were born.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each comes as a guest to the table</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hand of our God has outspread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fountains that ever leap upward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To share in the soil we all tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When ye plead for the wrecked and fallen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The exile from far-distant shores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember that men are still wasting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life's crimson around your own doors.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Have ye not, oh, my favored sisters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just a plea, a prayer or a tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For mothers who dwell ’neath the shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of agony, hatred and fear?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Men may tread down the poor and lowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May crush them in anger and hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But surely the mills of God’s justice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will grind out the grist of their fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, people sin-laden and guilty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So lusty and proud in your prime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sharp sickles of God’s retribution</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will gather your harvest of crime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weep not, oh my well-sheltered sisters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weep not for the Negro alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But weep for your sons who must gather</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The crops which their fathers have sown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go read on the tombstones of nations</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of chieftains who masterful trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sentence which time has engraven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That they had forgotten their God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis the judgment of God that men reap</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tares which in madness they sow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sorrow follows the footsteps of crime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Sin is the consort of Woe.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="then-and-now" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Then and Now</h2>
			<p>
				<span>"Build me a nation," said the Lord.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The distant nations heard the word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Build me a nation true and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bar out the old world's hate and wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For men had traced with blood and tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trail of weary wasting years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And torn and bleeding martyrs trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through fire and torture up to God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While in the hollow of his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God hid the secret of our land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men warred against their fiercest foes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kingdoms fell and empires rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till, weary of the old world strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men sought for broader, freer life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And plunged into the ocean's foam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find another, better home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, like a vision fair and bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The new world broke upon their sight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men grasped the prize, grew proud and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cursed the land with crime and wrong.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Indian stood despoiled of lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Negro bound with servile bands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oppressed through weary years of toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His blood and tears bedewed the soil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then God arose in dreadful wrath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And judgment streamed around his path;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His hand the captive's fetters broke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His lightnings shattered every yoke.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As Israel through the Red sea trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Led by the mighty hand of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They passed to freedom through a flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose every wave and surge was blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And slavery, with its crime and shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went down in wrath and blood and flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The land was billowed-o'er with graves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where men had lived and died as slaves.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Four and thirty years--what change since then!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beings once chattles now are men;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the gloom of slavery's night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has flashed the dawn of freedom's light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To-day no mother with anguish wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kneels and implores that her darling child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall not be torn from her bleeding heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its quivering tendrils rent apart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The father may soothe his child to sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And watch his slumbers calm and deep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No tyrant's tread will disturb his rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where freedom dwells as a welcome guest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His walls may be bare of pictured grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His fireside the lowliest place;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the wife and children sheltered there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are his to defend and guard with care.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where haughty tyrants once bore rule</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are ballot-box and public school.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The old slave-pen of former days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gives place to fanes of prayer and praise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To-night we would bring our meed of praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To noble friends of darker days;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men and women crowned with light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The true and tried in our gloomy night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Lundy, whose heart was early stirred</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To speak for freedom an earnest word;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Garrison, valiant, true and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose face was as flint against our wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Phillips, the peerless, grand and brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tower of strength to the outcast slave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Earth has no marble too pure and white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To enrol his name in golden light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our Douglass, too, with his massive brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who plead our cause with his broken chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And helped to hurl from his bloody seat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The curse that writhed and died at his feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Governor Andrew, who, looking back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw none he despised, though poor and black;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Harriet Beecher, whose glowing pen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Corroded the chains of fettered men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-night with greenest laurels we'll crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>North Elba's grave where sleeps John Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who made the gallows an altar high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And showed how a brave old man could die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Lincoln, our martyred President,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who returned to his God with chains he had rent.*</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Sumner, amid death's icy chill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaving to Hoar his Civil Rights Bill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let us remember old underground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all her passengers northward bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The train that ran till it ceased to pay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all her dividends given away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nor let it be said that we have forgot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The women who stood with Lucretia Mott;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor her who to the world was known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the simple name of Lucy stone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tribute unto a host of others</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who knew that men though black were brothers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who battled against our nation's sin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose graves are thick whose ranks are thin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, people chastened in the fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To nobler, grander things aspire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the new era of your life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring love for hate, and peace for strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon your hearts this vow record</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That ye will build unto the Lord</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A nobler future, true and grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To strengthen, crown and bless the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A higher freedom ye may gain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than that which comes from a riven chain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freedom your native land to bless</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With peace, and love and righteousness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As dreams that are past, a tale all told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are the days when men were bought and sold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now God be praised from sea to sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our flag floats o'er a country free.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="maceo" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Maceo</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Maceo dead! a thrill of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through our hearts in sadness ran</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we felt in one sad hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the world had lost a man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had clasped unto his bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sad fortunes of his land--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Held the cause for which he perished</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a firm, unfaltering hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On his lips the name of freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fainted with his latest breath.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cuba Libre was his watchword</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Passing through the gates of death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With the light of God around us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why this agony and strife?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the cross of Christ before us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why this fearful waste of life?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Must the pathway unto freedom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever mark a crimson line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the eyes of wayward mortals</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Always close to light divine?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Must the hearts of fearless valor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fail 'mid crime and cruel wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the world has read of heroes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brave and earnest, true and strong?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Men to stay the floods of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweeping round each war-crushed heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men to say to strife and carnage--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From our world henceforth depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God of peace and God of nations,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Haste! oh, haste the glorious day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the reign of our Redeemer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er the world shall have its sway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the swords now blood encrusted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spears that reap the battle field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall be changed to higher service,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Helping earth rich harvests yield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the widow weeps in anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the orphan bows his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grant that peace and joy and gladness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May like holy angels tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pity, oh, our God the sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of thy world from thee astray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lead us from the paths of madness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto Christ the living way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Year by year the world grows weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Neath its weight of sin and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though the hands once pierced and bleeding</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Offer more abundant life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>May the choral song of angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Heard upon Judea's plain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sound throughout the earth the tidings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of that old and sweet refrain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Till our world, so sad and weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Finds the balmy rest of peace--</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peace to silence all her discords--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peace till war and crime shall cease.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Peace to fall like gentle showers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or on parchéd flowers dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till our hearts proclaim with gladness:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lo, He maketh all things new.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-mothers-kiss" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Mother’s Kiss</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My mother’s kiss, my mother’s kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I feel its impress now;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As in the bright and happy days</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She pressed it on my brow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You say it is a fancied thing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within my memory fraught;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To me it has a sacred place⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The treasure house of thought.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again, I feel her fingers glide</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Amid my clustering hair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see the love-light in her eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When all my life was fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again, I hear her gentle voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In warning or in love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How precious was the faith that taught</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My soul of things above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The music of her voice is stilled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her lips are paled in death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As precious pearls I’ll clasp her words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until my latest breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The world has scattered round my path</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Honor and wealth and fame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But naught so precious as the thoughts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That gather round her name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And friends have placed upon my brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The laurels of renown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she first taught me how to wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My manhood as a crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My hair is silvered o’er with age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I’m longing to depart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To clasp again my mother’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And be a child at heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To roam with her the glory-land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where saints and angels greet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cast our crowns with songs of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At our Redeemer’s feet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-grain-of-sand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Grain of Sand</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see this grain of sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lying loosely in my hand?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do you know to me it brought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just a simple loving thought?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When one gazes night by night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the glorious stars of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh how little seems the span</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Measured round the life of man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! how fleeting are his years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their smiles and their tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can it be that God does care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For such atoms as we are?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then outspake this grain of sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I was fashioned by His hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the star lit realms of space</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was made to have a place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Should the ocean flood the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were its mountains ’gainst me hurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the force they could employ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouldn’t a single grain destroy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if I, a thing so light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have a place within His sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are linked unto his throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cannot live nor die alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“In the everlasting arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mid life’s dangers and alarms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let calm trust your spirit fill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Know He’s God, and then be still.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trustingly I raised my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hearing what the atom said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowing man is greater far</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than the brightest sun or star.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-crocuses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Crocuses</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They heard the South wind sighing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A murmur of the rain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they knew that Earth was longing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To see them all again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While the snow-drops still were sleeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath the silent sod;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They felt their new life pulsing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within the dark, cold clod.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not a daffodil nor daisy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had dared to raise its head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not a fair-haired dandelion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peeped timid from its bed;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though a tremor of the winter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did shivering through them run;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet they lifted up their foreheads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To greet the vernal sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the sunbeams gave them welcome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As did the morning air⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scattered o’er their simple robes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rich tints of beauty rare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon a host of lovely flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From vales and woodland burst;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in all that fair procession</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The crocuses were first.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>First to weave for Earth a chaplet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To crown her dear old head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to beautify the pathway</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where winter still did tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And their loved and white haired mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Smiled sweetly ’neath the touch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she knew her faithful children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were loving her so much.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-present-age" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Present Age</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Say not the age is hard and cold⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I think it brave and grand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When men of diverse sects and creeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are clasping hand in hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Parsee from his sacred fires</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beside the Christian kneels;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And clearer light to Islam’s eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The word of Christ reveals.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Brahmin from his distant home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brings thoughts of ancient lore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Buddhist breaking bonds of caste</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Divides mankind no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The meek-eyed sons of far Cathay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are welcome round the board;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not greed, nor malice drives away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These children of our Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Judah from whose trusted hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came oracles divine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now sits with those around whose hearts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The light of God doth shine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Japan unbars her long sealed gates</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From islands far away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her sons are lifting up their eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To greet the coming day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Indian child from forests wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has learned to read and pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tomahawk and scalping knife</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From him have passed away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From centuries of servile toil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Negro finds release,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And builds the fanes of prayer and praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto the God of Peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>England and Russia face to face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With Central Asia meet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the far Pacific coast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chinese and natives greet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Crusaders once with sword and shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Holy Land to save;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Muslim hands did strive to clutch</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dear Redeemer’s grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A battle greater, grander far</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is for the present age;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A crusade for the rights of man</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To brighten history’s page.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where labor faints and bows her head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And want consorts with crime;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or men grown faithless sadly say</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That evil is the time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is the field, the vantage ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For every earnest heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To side with justice, truth and right</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And act a noble part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To save from ignorance and vice</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The poorest, humblest child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make our age the fairest one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On which the sun has smiled;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To plant the roots of coming years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In mercy, love and truth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid our weary, saddened earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Again renew her youth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! earnest hearts! toil on in hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Till darkness shrinks from light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fill the earth with peace and joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let youth and age unite;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To stay the floods of sin and shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That sweep from shore to shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And furl the banners stained with blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Till war shall be no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blame not the age, nor think it full</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of evil and unrest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But say of every other age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“This one shall be the best.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The age to brighten every path</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By sin and sorrow trod;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For loving hearts to usher in</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The commonwealth of God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dedication-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dedication Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Dedication Poem on the reception of the annex to the home for aged colored people, from the bequest of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edward T. Parker.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Outcast from her home in Syria</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the lonely, dreary wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heavy hearted, sorrow stricken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sat a mother and her child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There was not a voice to cheer her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not a soul to share her fate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was weary, he was fainting⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And life seemed so desolate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Far away in sunny Egypt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was lone Hagar’s native land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the Nile in kingly bounty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Scatters bread throughout the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the tents of princely Abram</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She for years had found a home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the stern decree of Sarah</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sent her forth the wild to roam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hour by hour she journeyed onward</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the shelter of their tent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till her footsteps slowly faltered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the water all was spent;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then she veiled her face in sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Feared her child would die of thirst;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till her eyes with tears so holden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saw a sparkling fountain burst.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! how happy was that mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What a soothing of her pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she saw her child reviving,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Life rejoicing through each vein.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Does not life repeat this story,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tell it over day by day?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the fountains of refreshment</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever springing by our way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here is one by which we gather,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On this bright and happy day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just to bask beside a fountain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Making gladder life’s highway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bringing unto hearts now aged</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who have borne life’s burdens long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a gift of love and mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As deserves our sweetest song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Such a gift that even heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May rejoice with us below,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If the pure and holy angels</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Join us in our joy and woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>May the memory of the giver</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In this home where age may rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Float like fragrance through the ages,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ever blessing, ever blest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the gates of pearl are opened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May we there this friend behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drink with him from living fountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Walk with him the streets of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When life’s shattered cords of music</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall again be sweetly sung;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then our hearts with life immortal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be young, forever young.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-double-standard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Double Standard</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do you blame me that I loved him?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If when standing all alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cried for bread a careless world</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pressed to my lips a stone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you blame me that I loved him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That my heart beat glad and free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he told me in the sweetest tones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He loved but only me?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can you blame me that I did not see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath his burning kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The serpent’s wiles, nor even hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The deadly adder hiss?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can you blame me that my heart grew cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the tempted, tempter turned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he was fêted and caressed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I was coldly spurned?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would you blame him, when you draw from me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your dainty robes aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he with gilded baits should claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your fairest as his bride?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would you blame the world if it should press</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On him a civic crown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see me struggling in the depth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then harshly press me down?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Crime has no sex and yet to-day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I wear the brand of shame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst he amid the gay and proud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still bears an honored name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can you blame me if I’ve learned to think</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your hate of vice a sham,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you so coldly crushed me down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then excused the man?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would you blame me if to-morrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The coroner should say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wretched girl, outcast, forlorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has thrown her life away?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, blame me for my downward course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But oh! remember well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within your homes you press the hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That led me down to hell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m glad God’s ways are not our ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He does not see as man;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within His love I know there’s room</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For those whom others ban.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I think before His great white throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His throne of spotless light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That whited sepulchres shall wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hue of endless night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That I who fell, and he who sinned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall reap as we have sown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That each the burden of his loss</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Must bear and bear alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No golden weights can turn the scale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of justice in His sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what is wrong in woman’s life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In man’s cannot be right.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="our-hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Our Hero</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Onward to her destination,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er the stream the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.boat">Hannah</i> sped,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a cry of consternation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Smote and chilled our hearts with dread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wildly leaping, madly sweeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All relentless in their sway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a band of cruel demons</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flames were closing ’round our way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! the horror of those moments;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flames above and waves below⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! the agony of ages</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crowded in one hour of woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fainter grew our hearts with anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In that hour with peril rife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we saw the pilot flying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Terror-stricken, for his life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a man uprose before us⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We had once despised his race⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we saw a lofty purpose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lighting up his darkened face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While the flames were madly roaring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a courage grand and high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forth he rushed unto our rescue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong to suffer, brave to die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Helplessly the boat was drifting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death was staring in each face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he grasped the fallen rudder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Took the pilot’s vacant place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Could he save us? Would he save us?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All his hope of life give o’er?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could he hold that fated vessel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Till she reached the nearer shore?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All our hopes and fears were centered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Round his strong, unfaltering hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he failed us we must perish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Perish just in sight of land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Breathlessly we watched and waited</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While the flames were raging fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When our anguish changed to rapture⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We were saved, yes, saved at last.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Never strains of sweetest music</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brought to us more welcome sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than the grating of that steamer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When her keel had touched the ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But our faithful martyr hero</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through a fiery pathway trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till he laid his valiant spirit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the bosom of his God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fame has never crowned a hero</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the crimson fields of strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grander, nobler, than that pilot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yielding up for us his life.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-bondman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Bondman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Life was trembling, faintly trembling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the bondman’s latest breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he felt the chilling pressure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the cold, hard hand of Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had been an Afric chieftain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Worn his manhood as a crown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But upon the field of battle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had been fiercely stricken down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had longed to gain his freedom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waited, watched and hoped in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till his life was slowly ebbing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost broken was his chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>By his bedside stood the master,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazing on the dying one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowing by the dull grey shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That life’s sands were almost run.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Master,” said the dying bondman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Home and friends I soon shall see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But before I reach my country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master write that I am free;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“For the spirits of my fathers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would shrink back from me in pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I told them at our greeting</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I a slave had lived and died;⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Give to me the precious token,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That my kindred dead may see⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master! write it, write it quickly!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Master! write that I am free!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At his earnest plea the master</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrote for him the glad release,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er his wan and wasted features</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flitted one sweet smile of peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Eagerly he grasped the writing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I am free!” at last he said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Backward fell upon the pillow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was free among the dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="and-a-little-child-shall-lead-them" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“A Little Child Shall Lead Them”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Only a little scrap of blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Preserved with loving care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But earth has not a brilliant hue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To me more bright and fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strong drink, like a raging demon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laid on my heart his hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When my darling joined with others</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Loyal Legion<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a> band.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But mystic angels called away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My loved and precious child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er life’s dark and stormy way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swept waves of anguish wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This badge of the Loyal Legion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We placed upon her breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As she lay in her little coffin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Taking her last sweet rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To wear that badge as a token</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She earnestly did crave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So we laid it on her bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To wear it in the grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where sorrow would never reach her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor harsh words smite her ear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor her eyes in death dimmed slumber</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would ever shed a tear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“What means this badge?” said her father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whom we had tried to save;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who said, when we told her story,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Don’t put it in the grave.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We took the badge from her bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laid it on a chair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And men by drink deluded</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Knelt by that badge in prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And vowed in that hour of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From drink they would abstain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this little badge became the wedge</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which broke their galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And lifted the gloomy shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That overspread my life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flooding my home with gladness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Made me a happy wife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this is why this scrap of blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is precious in my sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It changed my sad and gloomy home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From darkness into light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sparrows-fall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sparrow’s Fall</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Too frail to soar⁠—a feeble thing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It fell to earth with fluttering wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But God, who watches over all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beheld that little sparrow’s fall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas not a bird with plumage gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filling the air with its morning lay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas not an eagle bold and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Borne on the tempest’s wing along.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Only a brown and weesome thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With drooping head and listless wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It could not drift beyond His sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who marshals the splendid stars of night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Its dying chirp fell on His ears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who tunes the music of the spheres,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who hears the hungry lion’s call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spreads a table for us all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Its mission of song at last is done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more will it greet the rising sun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That tiny bird has found a rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More calm than its mother’s downy breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, restless heart, learn thou to trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In God, so tender, strong and just;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In whose love and mercy everywhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His humblest children have a share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If in love He numbers ev’ry hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whether the strands be dark or fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall we not learn to calmly rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like children, on our Father’s breast?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="god-bless-our-native-land" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">God Bless Our Native Land</h2>
			<p>
				<span>God bless our native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Land of the newly free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh may she ever stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For truth and liberty.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God bless our native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where sleep our kindred dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let peace at thy command</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above their graves be shed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God help our native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bring surcease to her strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shower from thy hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A more abundant life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God bless our native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her homes and children bless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh may she ever stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For truth and righteousness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dandelions" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dandelions</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Welcome children of the Spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In your garbs of green and gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lifting up your sun-crowned heads</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the verdant plain and wold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As a bright and joyous troop</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the breast of earth ye came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair and lovely are your cheeks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With sun-kisses all aflame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the dusty streets and lanes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the lowly children play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There as gentle friends ye smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Making brighter life’s highway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dewdrops and the morning sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weave your garments fair and bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we welcome you to-day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As the children of the light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Children of the earth and sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We are slow to understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the richness of the gifts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flowing from our Father’s hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Were our vision clearer far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In this sin-dimmed world of ours,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would we not more thankful be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the love that sends us flowers?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Welcome, early visitants,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With your sun-crowned golden hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With your message to our hearts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of our Father’s loving care.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-building" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Building</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“Build me a house,” said the Master,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“But not on the shifting sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mid the wreck and roar of tempests,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A house that will firmly stand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I will bring thee windows of agates,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gates of carbuncles bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thy fairest courts and portals</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be filled with love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Thou shalt build with fadeless rubies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All fashioned around the throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A house that shall last forever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With Christ as the cornerstone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“It shall be a royal mansion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A fair and beautiful thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It will be the presence-chamber</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of thy Saviour, Lord and King.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Thy house shall be bound with pinions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To mansions of rest above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But grace shall forge all the fetters</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the links and cords of love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Thou shalt be free in this mansion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From sorrow and pain of heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the peace of God shall enter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And never again depart.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="home-sweet-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Home, Sweet Home</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sharers of a common country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They had met in deadly strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men who should have been as brothers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Madly sought each other’s life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the silence of the even,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the cannon’s lips were dumb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thoughts of home and all its loved ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the soldier’s heart would come.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the margin of a river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Mid the evening’s dews and damps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could be heard the sounds of music</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rising from two hostile camps.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One was singing of its section</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Down in Dixie, Dixie’s land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the other of the banner</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Waved so long from strand to strand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the land where Dixie’s ensign</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floated o’er the hopeful slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose the song that freedom’s banner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Starry-lighted, long might wave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the fields of strife and carnage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gentle thoughts began to roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a tender strain of music</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rose with words of “Home, Sweet Home.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then the hearts of strong men melted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For amid our grief and sin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still remains that “touch of nature,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Telling us we all are kin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In one grand but gentle chorus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floating to the starry dome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came the words that brought them nearer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Words that told of “Home, Sweet Home.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For awhile, all strife forgotten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They were only brothers then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joining in the sweet old chorus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not as soldiers, but as men.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Men whose hearts would flow together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though apart their feet might roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Found a tie they could not sever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the mem’ry of each home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Never may the steps of carnage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shake our land from shore to shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But may mother, home and Heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Be our watchwords evermore.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pure-in-heart-shall-see-god" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pure in Heart Shall See God</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They shall see Him in the crimson flush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of morning’s early light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the drapery of sunset,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around the couch of night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the clouds drop down their fatness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In late and early rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shall see His glorious footprints</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On valley, hill and plain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shall see Him when the cyclone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breathes terror through the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shall see Him ’mid the murmurs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of zephyrs soft and bland.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shall see Him when the lips of health,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breathe vigor through each nerve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When pestilence clasps hands with death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His purposes to serve.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shall see Him when the trembling earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is rocking to and fro;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shall see Him in the order</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The seasons come and go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shall see Him when the storms of war</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweep wildly through the land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When peace descends like gentle dew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They still shall see His hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They shall see Him in the city</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of gems and pearls of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They shall see Him in his beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And walk with Him in white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To living founts their feet shall tend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Christ shall be their guide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beloved of God, their rest shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In safety by His side.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="he-had-not-where-to-lay-his-head" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">He “Had Not Where to Lay His Head”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The conies had their hiding-place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The wily fox with stealthy tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A covert found, but Christ, the Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had not a place to lay his head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The eagle had an eyrie home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blithesome bird its quiet rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But not the humblest spot on earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was by the Son of God possessed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Princes and kings had palaces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With grandeur could adorn each tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Him who came with love and life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They had no home, they gave no room.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hands whose touch sent thrills of joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through nerves unstrung and palsied frame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The feet that travelled for our need,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were nailed unto the cross of shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How dare I murmur at my lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or talk of sorrow, pain and loss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Christ was in a manger laid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And died in anguish on the cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That homeless one beheld beyond</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His lonely agonizing pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A love outflowing from His heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That all the wandering world would gain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="go-work-in-my-vineyard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Go Work in My Vineyard</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Go work in my vineyard, said the Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gather the bruised grain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the reapers had left the stubble bare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I trod the soil in pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The fields of my Lord are wide and broad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He has pastures fair and green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And vineyards that drink the golden light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which flows from the sun’s bright sheen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I heard the joy of the reapers’ song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As they gathered golden grain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then wearily turned unto my task,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With a lonely sense of pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sadly I turned from the sun’s fierce glare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sought the quiet shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And over my dim and weary eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sleep’s peaceful fingers strayed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I dreamed I joined with a restless throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Eager for pleasure and gain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ever and anon a stumbler fell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And uttered a cry of pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the eager crowd still hurried on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Too busy to pause or heed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a voice rang sadly through my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You must staunch these wounds that bleed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My hands were weak, but I reached them out</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To feebler ones than mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And over the shadows of my life</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stole the light of a peace divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! then my task was a sacred thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How precious it grew in my eyes!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas mine to gather the bruised grain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the “Lord of Paradise.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the reapers shall lay their grain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the floors of golden light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I feel that mine with its broken sheaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be precious in His sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though thorns may often pierce my feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the shadows still abide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mists will vanish before His smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There will be light at eventide.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="renewal-of-strength" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Renewal of Strength</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The prison-house in which I live</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is falling to decay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But God renews my spirit’s strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within these walls of clay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For me a dimness slowly creeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around earth’s fairest light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But heaven grows clearer to my view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And fairer to my sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It may be earth’s sweet harmonies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are duller to my ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But music from my Father’s house</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Begins to float more near.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then let the pillars of my home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crumble and fall away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo, God’s dear love within my soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Renews it day by day.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jamies-puzzle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jamie’s Puzzle</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There was grief within our household</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because of a vacant chair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our mother, so loved and precious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No longer was sitting there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our hearts grew heavy with sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our eyes with tears were blind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And little Jamie was wondering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why we were left behind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We had told our little darling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the land of love and light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the saints all crowned with glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And enrobed in spotless white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We said that our precious mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had gone to that land so fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dwell with beautiful angels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And to be forever there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the child was sorely puzzled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why dear grandmamma should go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dwell in a stranger city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When her children loved her so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But again the mystic angel</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came with swift and silent tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And our sister, Jamie’s mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was enrolled among the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To us the mystery deepened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To Jamie it seemed more clear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grandma, he said, must be lonesome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And mamma has gone to her.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the question lies unanswered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In our little Jamie’s mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why she should go to our mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And leave her children behind;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To dwell in that lovely city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From all that was dear to part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From children who loved to nestle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So closely around her heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dear child, like you, we are puzzled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With problems that still remain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But think in the great hereafter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their meaning will all be plain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-lost-bells" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lost Bells</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Year after year the artist wrought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With earnest, loving care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The music flooding all his soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To pour upon the air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For this no metal was too rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He counted not the cost;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor deemed the years in which he toiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As labor vainly lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When morning flushed with crimson light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The golden gates of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He longed to fill the air with chimes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweet as a matin's lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the sun was sinking low</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Within the distant West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gladly heard the bells he wrought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Herald the hour of rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The music of a thousand harps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could never be so dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As when those solemn chants and thrills</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fell on his list'ning ear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He poured his soul into their chimes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And felt his toil repaid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He called them children of his soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His home a'near them made.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But evil days came on apace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">War spread his banner wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from his village snatched away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The artist's love and pride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At dewy morn and stilly eve</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The chimes no more he heard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With dull and restless agony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His spirit's depths was stirred.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A weary longing filled his soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It bound him like a spell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He left his home to seek the chimes--</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The chimes he loved so well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where lofty fanes in grandeur rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon his ear there fell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No music like the long lost chimes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of his beloved bell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus he wandered year by year.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Touched by the hand of time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking to hear with anxious heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each well remembered chime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And to that worn and weary heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There came a glad surcease:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He heard again the dear old chimes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And smiled and uttered peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"The chimes! the chimes!" the old man cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"I hear their tones at last;"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sudden rapture filled his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all his cares were past.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, peace had come with death's sweet calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His journeying was o'er,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weary, restless wanderer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had reached the restful shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It may be that he met again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Enfolded in the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dear old chimes beside the gates</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where all is bright and fair;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That he who crossed and bowed his head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When Angelus was sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In clearer light touched golden harps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By angel fingers strung.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="do-not-cheer-men-are-dying" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Do Not Cheer, Men Are Dying,” Said Capt. Phillips, in the Spanish-American-War</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer, for men are dying</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From their distant homes in pain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the restless sea is darkened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By a flood of crimson rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer, for anxious mothers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wait and watch in lonely dread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vainly waiting for the footsteps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never more their paths to tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer, while little children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gather round the widowed wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wondering why an unknown people</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sought their own dear father's life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer, for aged fathers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bend above their staves and weep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the ocean sings the requiem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where their fallen children sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer, for lips are paling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On which lay the mother's kiss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Mid the dreadful roar of battle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How that mother's hand they miss!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer: once joyous maidens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who the mazy dance did tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bow their heads in bitter anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mourning o'er their cherished dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer while maid and matron</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In this strife must bear a part;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the blow that strikes a soldier</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Reaches to some woman's heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer till arbitration</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er the nations holds its sway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the century now closing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ushers in a brighter day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer until the nation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall more wise and thoughtful grow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than to staunch a stream of sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By an avalanche of woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do not cheer until each nation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sheathes the sword and blunts the spear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we sing aloud for gladness:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lo, the reign of Christ is here,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the banners of destruction</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the battlefield are furled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the peace of God descending</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rests upon a restless world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-burdens-of-all" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Burdens of All</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We may sigh o'er the heavy burdens</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the black, the brown and white;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But if we all clasped hands together</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The burdens would be more light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How to solve life's saddest problems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its weariness, want and woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was answered by One who suffered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Palestine long ago.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He gave from his heart this precept,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To ease the burdens of men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"As ye would that others do to you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do ye even so to them."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life's heavy, wearisome burdens</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will change to a gracious trust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When men shall learn in the light of God</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To be merciful and just.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where war has sharpened his weapons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And slavery masterful had,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let white and black and brown unite</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To build the kingdom of God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never attempt in madness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To build a kingdom or state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through greed of gold or lust of power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the crumbling stones of hate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The burdens will always he heavy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sunshine fade into night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till mercy and justice shall cement</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The black, the brown and the white.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And earth shall answer with gladness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The herald angel's refrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When "Peace on earth, good will to men"</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was the burden of their strain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ragged-stocking" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ragged Stocking</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do you see this ragged stocking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here a rent and there a hole?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each thread of this little stocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is woven around my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you wish to hear my story?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Excuse me, the tears will start,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the sight of this ragged stocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stirs the fountains of my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You say that my home is happy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To me ’tis earth’s fairest place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But its sunshine, peace and gladness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Back to this stocking I trace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was once a wretched drunkard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah! you start and say not so;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the dreadful depths I’ve sounded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I speak of what I know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was wild and very reckless</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When I stood on manhood’s brink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, joining with pleasure-seekers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Learned to revel and drink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strong drink is a raging demon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In his hands are shame and woe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He mocketh the strength of the mighty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bringeth the strong man low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The light of my home was darkened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the shadow of my sin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And want and woe unbarr’d the door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And suffering entered in.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>The streets were full one Christmas eve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And alive with girls and boys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Merrily looking through window-panes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At bright and beautiful toys.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And throngs of parents came to buy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gifts that children prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And homeward trudged with happy hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The love-light in their eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I thought of my little Charley</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At home in his lowly bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the shadows around his life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in shame I bowed my head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I entered my home a sober man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart by remorse was wrung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there in the chimney corner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This little stocking was hung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Faded and worn as you see it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To me ’tis a precious thing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I never gaze upon it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But unbidden tears will spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I began to search my pockets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But scarcely a dime was there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But scanty as was the pittance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This stocking received its share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For a longing seized upon me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To gladden the heart of my boy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I bought him some cakes and candy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And added a simple toy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I knelt by this little stocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sobbed out an earnest prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And arose with strength to wrestle</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And break from the tempter’s snare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this faded, worn-out stocking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So pitiful once to see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Became the wedge that broke my chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And a blessing brought to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Do you marvel then I prize it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When each darn and seam and hole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is linked with my soul’s deliverance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the bondage of the bowl?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And to-night my wife will tell you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though I’ve houses, gold and land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He holds no treasure more precious</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than this stocking in my hand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fatal-pledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fatal Pledge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“Pledge me with wine,” the maiden cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her tones were gay and light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“From others you have turned aside,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I claim your pledge to-night.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The blood rushed to the young man’s cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then left it deadly pale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath the witchery of her smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He felt his courage fail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For many years he’d been a slave</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the enchanting bowl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until he grasped with eager hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The reins of self-control;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And struggled with his hated thrall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until he rent his chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And strove to stand erect and free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And be a man again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When others came with tempting words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He coldly turned aside.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she who held the sparkling cup</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was his affianced bride;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And like a vision of delight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bright, beautiful and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thoughtless words she wove for him</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meshes of despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From jeweled hands he took the cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor heard the serpent’s hiss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor saw beneath its ruby glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The deadly adder’s hiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like waves that madly, wildly dash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When dykes are overthrown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The barriers of his soul gave way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each life with wrecks was strewn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she who might have reached her hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To succor and to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon wept in hopeless agony</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above a drunkard’s grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And bore through life with bleeding heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Remembrance of that night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she had urged the tempted man</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With wine to make his plight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="christs-entry-into-jerusalem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Christ’s Entry Into Jerusalem</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He had plunged into our sorrows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And our sin had pierced his heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As before him loomed death’s shadow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And he knew he must depart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they hailed him as a victor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As he into Salem came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the very children shouted</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Loud hosannas to his name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bat he knew behind that triumph,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rising gladly to the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon would come the cries of malice:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crucify him! Crucify!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Onward rode the blessed Saviour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Conscious of the coming strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon to break in storms of hatred</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Round his dear, devoted life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ghastly in its fearful anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rose the cross before his eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he saw the joy beyond it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And did all the shame despise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Joy to see the cry of scorning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the ages ever bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cross of shame transfigured</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To a throne of love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Joy to know his soul’s deep travail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should not he a thing in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that joy and peace should blossom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From his agonizing pain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-resurrection-of-jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Resurrection of Jesus</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It was done, the deed of horror;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Christ had died upon the cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And within an upper chamber</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The disciples mourned their loss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Peter’s eyes were full of anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thinking sadly of the trial</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When his boasted self-reliance</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ended in his Lord’s denial.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Disappointment, deep and heavy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shrouded every heart with gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the hopes so fondly cherished</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Died around the garden tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they thought with shame and sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How they fled in that dark hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they saw their Lord and Master</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the clutch of Roman power.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We had hoped, they sadly uttered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He would over Israel reign,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to-day he lies sepulchred.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And our cherished hopes are vain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the humble home of Mary</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slowly waned the hours away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till she rose to seek the garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the place where Jesus lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not the cross with all its anguish</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Could her loving heart restrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the tomb she sought was empty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her heart o’erflowed with pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To embalm my Lord and Master</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To this garden I have strayed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, behold, I miss his body.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I know not where he’s laid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a wave of strange emotion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swept her soul, as angels said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Wherefore do ye seek the living</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">’Mid the chambers of the dead?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unperceived, her Lord stood by her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Silent witness of her grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing on his lips the tidings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sure to bring a glad relief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But her tear-dimmed eyes were holden</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When she heard the Master speak;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thought she, only ’tis the gardener</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Asking whom her soul did seek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then a sudden flush of gladness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er her grief-worn features spread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she knew the voice of Jesus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All her bitter anguish fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forth she reached hands in rapture.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Touch me not, the Saviour said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take the message to my brethren,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I have risen from the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Take them words of joy and comfort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which will all their mourning end;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To their Father and my Father,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tell them that I will ascend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Brethren, I have seen the Master:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He is risen from the dead.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But like words of idle meaning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seemed the glorious words she said.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon they saw the revelation</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which would bid their mourning cease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Christ, the risen, stood before them</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breathing words of love and peace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Timid men were changed to heroes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weakness turned to wondrous might.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cross became their standard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Luminous with love and light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From that lonely upper chamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Holding up the rugged cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a glad and bold surrender</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They encountered shame and loss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In these days of doubt and error,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the conflict for the right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May our hearts be ever strengthened</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the resurrection’s might.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="simons-countrymen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Simon’s Countrymen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They took away his seamless robe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With thorns they crowned his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As harshly, fiercely cried his foes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Barabbas in his stead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The friends he loved unto the end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who shared his daily bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the storms of wrath and hate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forsook their Lord and fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To rescue men from death and sin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He knew the awful cost.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As wearily he bent beneath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The burden of the cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Pilate had decreed his fate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Jews withheld their aid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then Simon, the Cyrenean, came:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On him the cross was laid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not his to smite with cruel scorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor mock the dying one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That helpful man came from the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Kissed by the ardent sun⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The land within whose sheltering arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The infant Jesus lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Herod vainly bared his sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sought the child to slay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Amid the calendar of saints</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We Simon’s name may trace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On history’s page thro’ every age</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He bears an honored place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He little knew that cross would change</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unto a throne of light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crown of thorns upon Christ’s brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would be forever bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beneath the shadow of that cross</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brave men wdth outstretched hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have told the wondrous tale of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In distant heathen lands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And yet within our favored land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where Christian churches rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dark-browed sons of Africa</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are hated and despised.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can they who speak of Christ as King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And glory in his name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget that Simon’s countiymen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still bear a cross of shame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can they forget the cruel scorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Men shower on a race</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who treat the hues their Father gives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As emblems of disgrace?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Will they erect to God their fanes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Christ with honor crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then with cruel weights of pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The African press down?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, Christians, when we faint and bleed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In this our native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reach out to us when peeled, opprest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A kindly helping hand,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And bear aloft that sacred cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bright from the distant years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And say for Christ’s and Simon’s sake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll wipe away your tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For years of sorrow, toil and pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll bring you love and light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the name of Christ our Lord</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We’ll make your pathway bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That seamless robe shall yet enfold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The children of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till rich and poor and bond and free</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In Christ shall all be one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And for his sake from pride and scorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our spirits shall be free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till through our souls shall sound the words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He did it unto me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="deliverance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Deliverance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Rise up! rise up! Oh Israel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let a spotless lamb be slain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The angel of death will o’er you bend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And rend your galling chain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sprinkle its blood upon the posts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And lintels of your door;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the angel sees the crimson spots</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unharmed he will pass you o’er.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gather your flocks and herds to-night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your children by our side:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A leader from Arabia comes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To be your friend and guide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With girded loins and sandled feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Await the hour of dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Mizraim shall wildly mourn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her first-born and her dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sons of Abraham no more</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall crouch ’neath Pharoah’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trembling with agony and dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He’ll thrust you from the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ye shall hold in unborn years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A feast to mark this day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When joyfully the fathers rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And cast their chains away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When crimson tints of morning flush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The golden gates of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or gorgeous hue of even melt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In sombre shades away,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then ye shall to your children teach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The meaning of this feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How from the proud oppressor’s hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their fathers were released,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ye shall hold through distant years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This feast with glad accord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And children’s children yet shall learn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To love and trust the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ages have passed since Israel trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In triumph through the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet they hold in memory’s urn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their first great jubilee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Moses led the ransomed hosts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Miriam’s song arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While ruin closed around the path</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of their pursuing foes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall Israel thro’ long varied years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These memories cherish yet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we who lately stood redeemed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our broken chains forget?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Should we forget the wondrous change</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That to our people came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When justice rose and sternly plead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our cause with sword and flame?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And led us through the storms of war</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To freedom’s fairer shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When slavery sank beneath a flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose waves were human gore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, youth and maidens of the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rise up with one accord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the name of Christ go forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To battle for the Lord.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go forth, but not in crimson fields.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With fratricidal strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the name of Christ go forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For freedom, love and life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go forth to follow in his steps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who came not to destroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till wastes shall blossom as the rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And deserts sing for joy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="simons-feast" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Simon’s Feast</h2>
			<p>
				<span>He is coming, she said, to Simon’s feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The prophet of Galilee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though multitudes around him throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In longing his face to see.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He enters the home as Simon’s guest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But he gives no welcome kiss;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He brings no water to bathe his feet⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why is Simon so remiss?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The prophet’s face is bright with love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And mercy beams from his eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He pities the poor, the lame and blind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An outcast, I will draw nigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If a prophet, he will surely know</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The guilt of my darkened years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With broken heart I’ll seek his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bathe his feet with my tears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No holy rabbi lays his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In blessing on my head;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No loving voice floats o’er the path,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The downward path I tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unto the Master’s side she pressed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A penitent, frail and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rained on his feet a flood of tears.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And then wiped them with her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Over the face of Simon swept</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An air of puzzled surprise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can my guest a holy prophet be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And not this woman despise?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Christ saw the thoughts that Simon’s heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had written upon his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kindly turned to the sinful one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In her sorrow and disgrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where Simon only saw the stains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where sin and shame were rife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Christ looked beneath and saw the germs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a fair, outflowering life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like one who breaks a galling chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And sets a prisoner free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He rent her fetters with the words,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Thy sins are forgiven thee.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>God be praised for the gracious words</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which came through that woman’s touch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That souls redeemed thro’ God’s dear Son</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May learn to love him so much;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That souls once red with guilt and crime</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May their crimson stains outgrow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scarlet spots upon their lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Become whiter than driven snow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
