<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="aunt-chloe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Aunt Chloe</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I remember, well remember,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That dark and dreadful day,</div>
						<div class="line">When they whispered to me, “Chloe,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Your children’s sold away!”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It seemed as if a bullet</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had shot me through and through,</div>
						<div class="line">And I felt as if my heart-strings</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was breaking right in two.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And I says to cousin Milly,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“There must be some mistake;</div>
						<div class="line">Where’s Mistus?” “In the great house crying—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Crying like her heart would break.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“And the lawyer’s there with Mistus;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Says he’s come to ’ministrate,</div>
						<div class="line">’Cause when master died he just left</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Heap of debt on the estate.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“And I thought ’twould do you good</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To bid your boys good-bye—</div>
						<div class="line">To kiss them both and shake their hands,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And have a hearty cry.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Oh! Chloe, I knows how you feel,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Cause I’se been through it all;</div>
						<div class="line">I thought my poor old heart would break,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When master sold my Saul.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Just then I heard the footsteps</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of my children at the door,</div>
						<div class="line">And I rose right up to meet them,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But I fell upon the floor.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And I heard poor Jakey saying,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Oh, mammy, don’t you cry!”</div>
						<div class="line">And I felt my children kiss me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And bid me, both, good-bye.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then I had a mighty sorrow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Though I nursed it all alone;</div>
						<div class="line">But I wasted to a shadow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And turned to skin and bone.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But one day dear Uncle Jacob</div>
						<div class="in2 line">(In heaven he’s now a saint)</div>
						<div class="line">Said, “Your poor heart is in the fire,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But child you must not faint.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then I said to Uncle Jacob,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">If I was good like you,</div>
						<div class="line">When the heavy trouble dashed me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I’d know just what to do.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then he said to me, “Poor Chloe,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The way is open wide:”</div>
						<div class="line">And he told me of the Saviour,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And the fountain in His side.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then he said “Just take your burden</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To the blessed Master’s feet;</div>
						<div class="line">I takes all my troubles, Chloe,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Right unto the mercy-seat.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">His words waked up my courage,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And I began to pray,</div>
						<div class="line">And I felt my heavy burden</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Rolling like a stone away.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And a something seemed to tell me,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">You will see your boys again—</div>
						<div class="line">And that hope was like a poultice</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Spread upon a dreadful pain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And it often seemed to whisper,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Chloe, trust and never fear;</div>
						<div class="line">You’ll get justice in the kingdom,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">If you do not get it here.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-deliverance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Deliverance</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Master only left old Mistus</div>
						<div class="in2 line">One bright and handsome boy;</div>
						<div class="line">But she fairly doted on him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He was her pride and joy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We all liked Mister Thomas,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He was so kind at heart;</div>
						<div class="line">And when the young folks got in scrapes,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He always took their part.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He kept right on that very way</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Till he got big and tall,</div>
						<div class="line">And old Mistus used to chide him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And say he’d spile us all.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But somehow the farm did prosper</div>
						<div class="in2 line">When he took things in hand;</div>
						<div class="line">And though all the servants liked him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He made them understand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">One evening Mister Thomas said,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Just bring my easy shoes:</div>
						<div class="line">I am going to sit by mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And read her up the news.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Soon I heard him tell old Mistus</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“We’re bound to have a fight;</div>
						<div class="line">But we’ll whip the Yankees, mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We’ll whip them sure as night!”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then I saw old Mistus tremble;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She gasped and held her breath;</div>
						<div class="line">And she looked on Mister Thomas</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With a face as pale as death.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“They are firing on Fort Sumpter;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Oh! I wish that I was there!—</div>
						<div class="line">Why, dear mother! what’s the matter?</div>
						<div class="in2 line">You’re the picture of despair.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“I was thinking, dearest Thomas,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Twould break my very heart</div>
						<div class="line">If a fierce and dreadful battle</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Should tear our lives apart.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“None but cowards, dearest mother,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Would skulk unto the rear,</div>
						<div class="line">When the tyrant’s hand is shaking,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All the heart is holding dear.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I felt sorry for old Mistus;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She got too full to speak;</div>
						<div class="line">But I saw the great big tear-drops</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A running down her cheek.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Mister Thomas too was troubled</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With choosing on that night,</div>
						<div class="line">Betwixt staying with his mother</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And joining in the fight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Soon down into the village came</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A call for volunteers;</div>
						<div class="line">Mistus gave up Mister Thomas,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With many sighs and tears.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">His uniform was real handsome;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He looked so brave and strong;</div>
						<div class="line">But somehow I couldn’t help thinking</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His fighting must be wrong.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Though the house was very lonesome,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I thought ’twould all come right,</div>
						<div class="line">For I felt somehow or other</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We was mixed up in that fight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And I said to Uncle Jacob,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Now old Mistus feels the sting,</div>
						<div class="line">For this parting with your children</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is a mighty dreadful thing.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Never mind,” said Uncle Jacob,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Just wait and watch and pray,</div>
						<div class="line">For I feel right sure and certain,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Slavery’s bound to pass away;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Because I asked the Spirit,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">If God is good and just,</div>
						<div class="line">How it happened that the masters</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did grind us to the dust.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“And something reasoned right inside,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Such should not always be;</div>
						<div class="line">And you could not beat it out my head,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Spirit spoke to me.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And his dear old eyes would brighten,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And his lips put on a smile,</div>
						<div class="line">Saying, “Pick up faith and courage,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And just wait a little while.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Mistus prayed up in the parlor,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That the Secesh all might win;</div>
						<div class="line">We were praying in the cabins,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Wanting freedom to begin.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Mister Thomas wrote to Mistus,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Telling ’bout the Bull’s Run fight,</div>
						<div class="line">That his troops had whipped the Yankees</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And put them all to flight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Mistus’ eyes did fairly glisten;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She laughed and praised the South,</div>
						<div class="line">But I thought some day she’d laugh</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On tother side her mouth.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I used to watch old Mistus’ face,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And when it looked quite long</div>
						<div class="line">I would say to Cousin Milly,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The battle’s going wrong;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Not for us, but for the Rebels,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My heart ’would fairly skip,</div>
						<div class="line">When Uncle Jacob used to say,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“The North is bound to whip.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And let the fight go as it would—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Let North or South prevail—</div>
						<div class="line">He always kept his courage up,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And never let it fail.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And he often used to tell us,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“Children, don’t forget to pray;</div>
						<div class="line">For the darkest time of morning</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is just ’fore the break of day.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Well, one morning bright and early</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We heard the fife and drum,</div>
						<div class="line">And the booming of the cannon—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Yankee troops had come.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When the word ran through the village,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The colored folks are free—</div>
						<div class="line">In the kitchens and the cabins</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We held a jubilee.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When they told us Mister Lincoln</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Said that slavery was dead,</div>
						<div class="line">We just poured our prayers and blessings</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Upon his precious head.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We just laughed, and danced, and shouted,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And prayed, and sang, and cried,</div>
						<div class="line">And we thought dear Uncle Jacob</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Would fairly crack his side.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But when old Mistus heard it,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She groaned and hardly spoke;</div>
						<div class="line">When she had to lose her servants,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Her heart was almost broke.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">’Twas a sight to see our people</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Going out, the troops to meet,</div>
						<div class="line">Almost dancing to the music,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And marching down the street.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">After years of pain and parting,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Our chains was broke in two,</div>
						<div class="line">And we was so mighty happy,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We didn’t know what to do.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But we soon got used to freedom,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Though the way at first was rough;</div>
						<div class="line">But we weathered through the tempest,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For slavery made us tough.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But we had one awful sorrow,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">It almost turned my head,</div>
						<div class="line">When a mean and wicked cretur</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shot Mister Lincoln dead.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">’Twas a dreadful solemn morning,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I just staggered on my feet;</div>
						<div class="line">And the women they were crying</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And screaming in the street.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But if many prayers and blessings</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Could bear him to the throne,</div>
						<div class="line">I should think when Mister Lincoln died,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That heaven just got its own.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then we had another President,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">What do you call his name?</div>
						<div class="line">Well, if the colored folks forget him</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They wouldn’t be much to blame.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We thought he’d be the Moses</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of all the colored race;</div>
						<div class="line">But when the Rebels pressed us hard</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He never showed his face.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But something must have happened him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Right curi’s I’ll be bound,</div>
						<div class="line">’Cause I heard ’em talking ’bout a circle</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That he was swinging round.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But everything will pass away—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He went like time and tide—</div>
						<div class="line">And when the next election came</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They let poor Andy slide.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But now we have a President,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And if I was a man</div>
						<div class="line">I’d vote for him for breaking up</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The wicked Ku-Klux Klan.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And if any man should ask me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">If I would sell my vote,</div>
						<div class="line">I’d tell him I was not the one</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To change and turn my coat;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">If freedom seem’d a little rough</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I’d weather through the gale;</div>
						<div class="line">And as to buying up my vote,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I hadn’t it for sale.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I do not think I’d ever be</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As slack as Jonas Handy;</div>
						<div class="line">Because I heard he sold his vote</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For just three sticks of candy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But when John Thomas Reeder brought</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His wife some flour and meat,</div>
						<div class="line">And told her he had sold his vote</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For something good to eat.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">You ought to seen Aunt Kitty raise,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And heard her blaze away;</div>
						<div class="line">She gave the meat and flour a toss,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And said they should not stay.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And I should think he felt quite cheap</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For voting the wrong side;</div>
						<div class="line">And when Aunt Kitty scolded him,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He just stood up and cried.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But the worst fooled man I ever saw,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was when poor David Rand</div>
						<div class="line">Sold out for flour and sugar;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The sugar was mixed with sand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I’ll tell you how the thing got out;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His wife had company,</div>
						<div class="line">And she thought the sand was sugar,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And served it up for tea.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When David sipped and sipped the tea,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Somehow it didn’t taste right;</div>
						<div class="line">I guess when he found he was sipping sand,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He was mad enough to fight.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The sugar looked so nice and white—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">It was spread some inches deep—</div>
						<div class="line">But underneath was a lot of sand;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Such sugar is mighty cheap.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">You’d laughed to seen Lucinda Grange</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Upon her husband’s track;</div>
						<div class="line">When he sold his vote for rations</div>
						<div class="in2 line">She made him take ’em back.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Day after day did Milly Green</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Just follow after Joe,</div>
						<div class="line">And told him if he voted wrong</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To take his rags and go.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I think that Curnel Johnson said</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His side had won the day,</div>
						<div class="line">Had not we women radicals</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Just got right in the way.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And yet I would not have you think</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That all our men are shabby;</div>
						<div class="line">But ’tis said in every flock of sheep</div>
						<div class="in2 line">There will be one that’s scabby.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I’ve heard, before election came</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They tried to buy John Slade;</div>
						<div class="line">But he gave them all to understand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That he wasn’t in that trade.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And we’ve got lots of other men</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who rally round the cause,</div>
						<div class="line">And go for holding up the hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That gave us equal laws.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Who know their freedom cost too much</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of blood and pain and treasure,</div>
						<div class="line">For them to fool away their votes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For profit or for pleasure.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="aunt-chloes-politics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Aunt Chloe’s Politics</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of course, I don’t know very much</div>
						<div class="in2 line">About these politics,</div>
						<div class="line">But I think that some who run ’em,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Do mighty ugly tricks.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I’ve seen ’em honey-fugle round,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And talk so awful sweet,</div>
						<div class="line">That you’d think them full of kindness,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As an egg is full of meat.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Now I don’t believe in looking</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Honest people in the face,</div>
						<div class="line">And saying when you’re doing wrong,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That “I haven’t sold my race.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When we want to school our children,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">If the money isn’t there,</div>
						<div class="line">Whether black or white have took it,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The loss we all must share.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And this buying up each other</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Is something worse than mean,</div>
						<div class="line">Though I thinks a heap of voting,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I go for voting clean.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="learning-to-read" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Learning to Read</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Very soon the Yankee teachers</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Came down and set up school;</div>
						<div class="line">But, oh! how the Rebs did hate it,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">It was agin’ their rule.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Our masters always tried to hide</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Book learning from our eyes;</div>
						<div class="line">Knowledge didn’t agree with slavery—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Twould make us all too wise.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But some of us would try to steal</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A little from the book,</div>
						<div class="line">And put the words together,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And learn by hook or crook.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I remember Uncle Caldwell,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who took pot-liquor fat</div>
						<div class="line">And greased the pages of his book,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And hid it in his hat.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And had his master ever seen</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The leaves upon his head,</div>
						<div class="line">He’d have thought them greasy papers,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But nothing to be read.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And there was Mr. Turner’s Ben,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who heard the children spell,</div>
						<div class="line">And picked the words right up by heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And learned to read ’em well.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Well, the Northern folks kept sending</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Yankee teachers down;</div>
						<div class="line">And they stood right up and helped us,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Though Rebs did sneer and frown.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And, I longed to read my Bible,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For precious words it said;</div>
						<div class="line">But when I begun to learn it,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Folks just shook their heads,</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And said there is no use trying,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Oh! Chloe, you’re too late;</div>
						<div class="line">But as I was rising sixty,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I had no time to wait.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">So I got a pair of glasses,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And straight to work I went,</div>
						<div class="line">And never stopped till I could read</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The hymns and Testament.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Then I got a little cabin</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A place to call my own—</div>
						<div class="line">And I felt as independent</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As the queen upon her throne.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="church-building" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Church Building</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Uncle Jacob often told us,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Since freedom blessed our race</div>
						<div class="line">We ought all to come together</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And build a meeting place.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">So we pinched, and scraped, and spared,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A little here and there:</div>
						<div class="line">Though our wages was but scanty,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The church did get a share.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And, when the house was finished,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Uncle Jacob came to pray;</div>
						<div class="line">He was looking mighty feeble,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And his head was awful gray.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But his voice rang like a trumpet;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His eyes looked bright and young;</div>
						<div class="line">And it seemed a mighty power</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was resting on his tongue.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And he gave us all his blessing—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">’Twas parting words he said,</div>
						<div class="line">For soon we got the message</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The dear old man was dead.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But I believe he’s in the kingdom,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For when we shook his hand</div>
						<div class="line">He said, “Children, you must meet me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Right in the promised land;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“For when I’m done a moiling</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And toiling here below,</div>
						<div class="line">Through the gate into the city</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Straightway I hope to go.”</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-reunion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Reunion</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Well, one morning real early</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I was going down the street,</div>
						<div class="line">And I heard a stranger asking</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For Missis Chloe Fleet.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">There was a something in his voice</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That made me feel quite shaky,</div>
						<div class="line">And when I looked right in his face,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who should it be but Jakey!</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I grasped him tight, and took him home—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">What gladness filled my cup!</div>
						<div class="line">And I laughed, and just rolled over,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And laughed, and just give up.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Where have you been? O Jakey, dear!</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Why didn’t you come before?</div>
						<div class="line">Oh! when you children went away</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My heart was awful sore.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Why, mammy, I’ve been on your hunt</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Since ever I’ve been free,</div>
						<div class="line">And I have heard from brother Ben,—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He’s down in Tennessee.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“He wrote me that he had a wife.”</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“And children?” “Yes, he’s three.”</div>
						<div class="line">“You married, too?” “Oh no, indeed,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I thought I’d first get free.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Then, Jakey, you will stay with me,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And comfort my poor heart;</div>
						<div class="line">Old Mistus got no power now</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To tear us both apart.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“I’m richer now than Mistus,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Because I have got my son;</div>
						<div class="line">And Mister Thomas he is dead,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And she’s got nary one.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“You must write to brother Benny</div>
						<div class="in2 line">That he must come this fall,</div>
						<div class="line">And we’ll make the cabin bigger,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And that will hold us all.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">“Tell him I want to see ’em all</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Before my life do cease:</div>
						<div class="line">And then, like good old Simeon,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I hope to die in peace.”</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="i-thirst" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“I Thirst”</h2>
			<h3 class="c002">
				<span class="sc">First Voice.</span>
			</h3>
			<div class="c008 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I thirst, but earth cannot allay</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The fever coursing through my veins,</div>
						<div class="line">The healing stream is far away—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">It flows through Salem’s lovely plains.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The murmurs of its crystal flow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Break ever o’er this world of strife;</div>
						<div class="line">My heart is weary, let me go,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To bathe it in the stream of life;</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">For many worn and weary hearts</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Have bathed in this pure healing stream,</div>
						<div class="line">And felt their griefs and cares depart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">E’en like some sad forgotten dream.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<h3 class="c002">
				<span class="sc">Second Voice.</span>
			</h3>
			<div class="nf-center-c0">
				<div class="c002 nf-center">
					<div>
						<span class="small">“The Word is nigh thee, even in thy heart.”</span>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Say not, within thy weary heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Who shall ascend above,</div>
						<div class="line">To bring unto thy fever’d lips</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The fount of joy and love.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Nor do thou seek to vainly delve</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where death’s pale angels tread,</div>
						<div class="line">To hear the murmur of its flow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Around the silent dead.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Within, in thee is one living fount,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Fed from the springs above;</div>
						<div class="line">There quench thy thirst till thou shalt bathe</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In God’s own sea of love.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-queen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Queen</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“I would meet death awake.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<div class="c008 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The strength that bore her on for years</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was ebbing fast away,</div>
						<div class="line">And o’er the pale and life-worn face,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Death’s solemn shadows lay.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">With tender love and gentle care,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Friends gathered round her bed,</div>
						<div class="line">And for her sake each footfall hushed</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The echoes of its tread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They knew the restlessness of death</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Through every nerve did creep,</div>
						<div class="line">And carefully they tried to lull</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The dying Queen to sleep.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">In vain she felt Death’s icy hand</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Her failing heart-strings shake;</div>
						<div class="line">And, rousing up, she firmly said,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“I’d meet my God awake.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Awake, I’ve met the battle’s shock,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And born the cares of state;</div>
						<div class="line">Nor shall I take your lethean cup,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And slumber at death’s gate.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Did I not watch with eyes alert,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The path where foes did tend;</div>
						<div class="line">And shall I veil my eyes with sleep,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To meet my God and friend?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Nay, rather from my weary lids,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">This heavy slumber shake,</div>
						<div class="line">That I may pass the mystic vale,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And meet my God awake.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-jewish-grandfathers-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Jewish Grandfather’s Story</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Come, gather around me, children,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And a story I will tell.</div>
						<div class="line">How we builded the beautiful temple—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The temple we love so well.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I must date my story backward</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To a distant age and land,</div>
						<div class="line">When God did break our fathers’ chains</div>
						<div class="in2 line">By his mighty outstretched hand</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Our fathers were strangers and captives,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where the ancient Nile doth flow;</div>
						<div class="line">Smitten by cruel taskmasters,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And burdened by toil and woe.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">As a shepherd, to pastures green</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Doth lead with care his sheep,</div>
						<div class="line">So God divided the great Red Sea,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And led them through the deep.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">You’ve seen me plant a tender vine,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And guard it with patient care,</div>
						<div class="line">Till its roots struck in the mellow earth,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And it drank the light and air.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">So God did plant our chosen race,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">As a vine in this fair land;</div>
						<div class="line">And we grew and spread a fruitful tree,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The planting of his right hand.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The time would fail strove I to tell,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">All the story of our race—</div>
						<div class="line">Of our grand old leader, Moses,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And Joshua in his place,</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of all our rulers and judges,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From Joshua unto Saul,</div>
						<div class="line">Over whose doomed and guilty head</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Fell ruin and death’s dark pall.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of valiant Jephthah, whose brave heart</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With sudden grief did bow,</div>
						<div class="line">When his daughter came with dance and song</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unconscious of his vow.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of Gideon, lifting up his voice</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To him who rules the sky,</div>
						<div class="line">And wringing out his well drenched fleece,</div>
						<div class="line">When all around was dry.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">How Deborah, ’neath her spreading palms,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A judge in Israel rose,</div>
						<div class="line">And wrested victory from the hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of Jacob’s heathen foes.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of Samuel, an upright judge.</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The last who ruled our tribes,</div>
						<div class="line">Whose noble life and cleanly hands,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Were pure and free from bribes.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of David, with his checkered life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Our tuneful minstrel king,</div>
						<div class="line">Who breathed in sadness and delight,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The psalms we love to sing.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Of Solomon, whose wandering heart,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From Jacob’s God did stray,</div>
						<div class="line">And cast the richest gifts of life,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In pleasure’s cup away.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">How aged men advised his son,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">But found him weak and vain,</div>
						<div class="line">Until the kingdom from his hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Was rudely rent in twain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Oh! sin and strife are fearful things,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">They widen as they go,</div>
						<div class="line">And leave behind them shades of death,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And open gates of woe.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">A trail of guilt, a gloomy line,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ran through our nation’s life,</div>
						<div class="line">And wicked kings provoked our God,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And sin and woe were rife.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">At length, there came a day of doom—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A day of grief and dread;</div>
						<div class="line">When judgment like a fearful storm</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Swept o’er our country’s head.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And we were captives many years,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Where Babel’s stream doth flow;</div>
						<div class="line">With harps unstrung, on willows hung,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We wept in silent woe.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We could not sing the old, sweet songs,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Our captors asked to hear;</div>
						<div class="line">Our hearts were full, how could we sing</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The songs to us so dear?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">As one who dreams a mournful dream,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Which fades, as wanes the night,</div>
						<div class="line">So God did change our gloomy lot</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From darkness into light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Belshazzar in his regal halls,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A sumptuous feast did hold;</div>
						<div class="line">He praised his gods and drank his wine</div>
						<div class="in2 line">From sacred cups of gold.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">When dance and song and revelry</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Had filled with mirth each hall,</div>
						<div class="line">Belshazzar raised his eyes and saw</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A writing on the wall.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He saw, and horror blanched his cheek,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His lips were white with fear;</div>
						<div class="line">To read the words he quickly called</div>
						<div class="in2 line">For wise men, far and near.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But baffled seers, with anxious doubt</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Stood silent in the room,</div>
						<div class="line">When Daniel came, a captive youth,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And read the words of doom.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">That night, within his regal hall,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Belshazzar lifeless lay;</div>
						<div class="line">The Persians grasped his fallen crown,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And with the Mede held sway.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Darius came, and Daniel rose</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A man of high renown;</div>
						<div class="line">But wicked courtiers schemed and planned</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To drag the prophet down.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They came as men who wished to place</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Great honors on their king—</div>
						<div class="line">With flattering lips and oily words,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Desired a certain thing.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They knew that Daniel, day by day</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Towards Salem turned his face,</div>
						<div class="line">And asked the king to sign a law</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His hands might not erase.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">That till one moon had waned away,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">No cherished wish or thing</div>
						<div class="line">Should any ask of men or Gods,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unless it were the king.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But Daniel, full of holy trust,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His windows opened wide,</div>
						<div class="line">Regardless of the king’s command,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unto his God he cried.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">They brought him forth that he might be</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The hungry lion’s meat,</div>
						<div class="line">Awe struck, the lions turned away</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And crouched anear his feet.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The God he served was strong to save</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His servant in the den;</div>
						<div class="line">The fate devised for Daniel’s life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">O’er took those scheming men.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And Cyrus came, a gracious king,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And gave the blest command,</div>
						<div class="line">That we, the scattered Jews, should build</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Anew our fallen land.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The men who hated Juda’s weal</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Were filled with bitter rage,</div>
						<div class="line">And ’gainst the progress of our work</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did evil men engage.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Sanballat tried to hinder us,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And Gashmu uttered lies,</div>
						<div class="line">But like a thing of joy and light,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We saw our temple rise.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And from the tower of Hananeel</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unto the corner gate,</div>
						<div class="line">We built the wall and did restore</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The places desolate.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Some mocked us as we labored on</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And scoffingly did say,</div>
						<div class="line">“If but a fox climb on the wall,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Their work will give away.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">But Nehemiah wrought in hope,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Though heathen foes did frown</div>
						<div class="line">“My work is great,” he firmly said,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">“And I cannot come down.”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And when Shemai counselled him</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The temple door to close,</div>
						<div class="line">To hide, lest he should fall a prey</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unto his cruel foes.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Strong in his faith, he answered, “No,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">He would oppose the tide,</div>
						<div class="line">Should such as he from danger flee,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And in the temple hide?”</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We wrought in earnest faith and hope</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Until we built the wall,</div>
						<div class="line">And then, unto a joyful feast</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did priest and people call.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">We came to dedicate the wall</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With sacrifice and joy—</div>
						<div class="line">A happy throng, from aged sire</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Unto the fair-haired boy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Our lips so used to mournful songs,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did joyous laughter fill,</div>
						<div class="line">And strong men wept with sacred joy</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To stand on Zion’s hill.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Mid scoffing foes and evil men,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">We built our city blest,</div>
						<div class="line">And ’neath our sheltering vines and palms</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To-day in peace we rest.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="out-in-the-cold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Out in the Cold</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Out in the cold mid the dreary night,</div>
						<div class="line">Under the eaves of homes so bright;</div>
						<div class="line">Snowflakes falling o’er mother’s grave</div>
						<div class="line">Will no one rescue, no one save?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">A child left out in the dark and cold,</div>
						<div class="line">A lamb not sheltered in any fold,</div>
						<div class="line">Hearing the wolves of hunger bark,</div>
						<div class="line">Out in the cold! and out in the dark.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Missing to-night the charming bliss,</div>
						<div class="line">That lies in the mother’s good-night kiss;</div>
						<div class="line">And hearing no loving father’s prayer,</div>
						<div class="line">For blessings his children all may share.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Creeping away to some wretched den,</div>
						<div class="line">To sleep mid the curses of drunken men</div>
						<div class="line">And women, not as God has made,</div>
						<div class="line">Wrecked and ruined, wronged and betrayed.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Church of the Lord reach out thy arm,</div>
						<div class="line">And shield the hapless one from harm;</div>
						<div class="line">Where the waves of sin are dashing wild</div>
						<div class="line">Rescue and save the drifting child.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Wash from her life guilt’s turbid foam,</div>
						<div class="line">In the fair haven of a home;</div>
						<div class="line">Tenderly lead the motherless girl</div>
						<div class="line">Up to the gates of purest pearl.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The wandering feet which else had strayed,</div>
						<div class="line">From thorny paths may yet be stayed;</div>
						<div class="line">And a crimson track through the cold dark night</div>
						<div class="line">May exchange to a line of loving light.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="save-the-boys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Save the Boys</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Like Dives in the deeps of Hell</div>
						<div class="line">I cannot break this fearful spell,</div>
						<div class="line">Nor quench the fires I’ve madly nursed,</div>
						<div class="line">Nor cool this dreadful raging thirst.</div>
						<div class="line">Take back your pledge—ye come too late!</div>
						<div class="line">Ye cannot save me from my fate,</div>
						<div class="line">Nor bring me back departed joys;</div>
						<div class="line">But ye can try to save the boys.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Ye bid me break my fiery chain,</div>
						<div class="line">Arise and be a man again,</div>
						<div class="line">When every street with snares is spread,</div>
						<div class="line">And nets of sin where’er I tread.</div>
						<div class="line">No; I must reap as I did sow.</div>
						<div class="line">The seeds of sin bring crops of woe;</div>
						<div class="line">But with my latest breath I’ll crave</div>
						<div class="line">That ye will try the boys to save.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">These bloodshot eyes were once so bright;</div>
						<div class="line">This sin-crushed heart was glad and light;</div>
						<div class="line">But by the wine-cup’s ruddy glow</div>
						<div class="line">I traced a path to shame and woe.</div>
						<div class="line">A captive to my galling chain,</div>
						<div class="line">I’ve tried to rise, but tried in vain—</div>
						<div class="line">The cup allures and then destroys.</div>
						<div class="line">Oh! from its thraldom save the boys.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Take from your streets those traps of hell</div>
						<div class="line">Into whose gilded snares I fell.</div>
						<div class="line">Oh! freemen, from these foul decoys</div>
						<div class="line">Arise, and vote to save the boys.</div>
						<div class="line">Oh ye who license men to trade</div>
						<div class="line">In draughts that charm and then degrade,</div>
						<div class="line">Before ye hear the cry, Too late,</div>
						<div class="line">Oh, save the boys from my sad fate.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="nothing-and-something" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nothing and Something</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It is nothing to me, the beauty said,</div>
						<div class="line">With a careless toss of her pretty head;</div>
						<div class="line">The man is weak if he can’t refrain</div>
						<div class="line">From the cup you say is fraught with pain.</div>
						<div class="line">It was something to her in after years,</div>
						<div class="line">When her eyes were drenched with burning tears,</div>
						<div class="line">And she watched in lonely grief and dread,</div>
						<div class="line">And startled to hear a staggering tread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It is nothing to me, the mother said;</div>
						<div class="line">I have no fear that my boy will tread</div>
						<div class="line">In the downward path of sin and shame,</div>
						<div class="line">And crush my heart and darken his name.</div>
						<div class="line">It was something to her when that only son</div>
						<div class="line">From the path of right was early won,</div>
						<div class="line">And madly cast in the flowing bowl</div>
						<div class="line">A ruined body and sin-wrecked soul.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It is nothing to me, the young man cried:</div>
						<div class="line">In his eye was a flash of scorn and pride;</div>
						<div class="line">I heed not the dreadful things ye tell:</div>
						<div class="line">I can rule myself I know full well.</div>
						<div class="line">It was something to him when in prison he lay</div>
						<div class="line">The victim of drink, life ebbing away;</div>
						<div class="line">And thought of his wretched child and wife,</div>
						<div class="line">And the mournful wreck of his wasted life.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It is nothing to me, the merchant said,</div>
						<div class="line">As over his ledger he bent his head;</div>
						<div class="line">I’m busy to-day with tare and tret,</div>
						<div class="line">And I have no time to fume and fret.</div>
						<div class="line">It was something to him when over the wire</div>
						<div class="line">A message came from a funeral pyre—</div>
						<div class="line">A drunken conductor had wrecked a train,</div>
						<div class="line">And his wife and child were among the slain.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">It is nothing to me, the voter said,</div>
						<div class="line">The party’s loss is my greatest dread;</div>
						<div class="line">Then gave his vote for the liquor trade,</div>
						<div class="line">Though hearts were crushed and drunkards made.</div>
						<div class="line">It was something to him in after life,</div>
						<div class="line">When his daughter became a drunkard’s wife</div>
						<div class="line">And her hungry children cried for bread,</div>
						<div class="line">And trembled to hear their father’s tread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Is it nothing for us to idly sleep</div>
						<div class="line">While the cohorts of death their vigils keep?</div>
						<div class="line">To gather the young and thoughtless in</div>
						<div class="line">And grind in our midst a grist of sin?</div>
						<div class="line">It is something, yes, all, for us to stand</div>
						<div class="line">Clasping by faith our Saviour’s hand;</div>
						<div class="line">To learn to labor, live and fight</div>
						<div class="line">On the side of God and changeless light.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="wanderers-return" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wanderer’s Return</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">My home is so glad, my heart is so light,</div>
						<div class="line">My wandering boy has returned to-night.</div>
						<div class="line">He is blighted and bruised, I know, by sin,</div>
						<div class="line">But I am so glad to welcome him in.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The child of my tenderest love and care</div>
						<div class="line">Has broken away from the tempter’s snare;</div>
						<div class="line">To-night my heart is o’erflowing with joy,</div>
						<div class="line">I have found again my wandering boy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">My heart has been wrung with a thousand fears,</div>
						<div class="line">Mine eyes been drenched with the bitterest tears;</div>
						<div class="line">Like shadows that fade are my past alarms,</div>
						<div class="line">My boy is enclasped in his mother’s arms.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The streets were not safe for my darling child;</div>
						<div class="line">Where sin with its evil attractions smiled.</div>
						<div class="line">But his wandering feet have ceased to roam,</div>
						<div class="line">And to-night my wayward boy is at home—</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">At home with the mother that loves him best,</div>
						<div class="line">With the hearts that have ached with sad unrest,</div>
						<div class="line">With the hearts that are thrilling with untold joy</div>
						<div class="line">Because we have found our wandering boy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">In that wretched man so haggard and wild</div>
						<div class="line">I only behold my returning child,</div>
						<div class="line">And the blissful tears from my eyes that start</div>
						<div class="line">Are the overflow of a happy heart.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I have trodden the streets in lonely grief,</div>
						<div class="line">I have sought in prayer for my sole relief;</div>
						<div class="line">But the depths of my heart to-night are stirred,</div>
						<div class="line">I know that the mother’s prayer has been heard.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">If the mother-love be so strong and great</div>
						<div class="line">For her child, sin-weary and desolate,</div>
						<div class="line">Oh what must the love of the Father be</div>
						<div class="line">For souls who have wandered like you and me!</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="fishers-of-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“Fishers of Men”</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I had a dream, a varied dream:</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Before my ravished sight</div>
						<div class="line">The city of my Lord arose,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With all its love and light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The music of a myriad harps</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Flowed out with sweet accord;</div>
						<div class="line">And saints were casting down their crowns</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In homage to our Lord.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">My heart leaped up with untold joy;</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Life’s toil and pain were o’er;</div>
						<div class="line">My weary feet at last had found</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The bright and restful shore.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Just as I reached the gates of light,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ready to enter in,</div>
						<div class="line">From earth arose a fearful cry</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Of sorrow and of sin.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I turned, and saw behind me surge</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A wild and stormy sea;</div>
						<div class="line">And drowning men were reaching out</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Imploring hands to me.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And ev’ry lip was blanched with dread</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And moaning for relief;</div>
						<div class="line">The music of the golden harps</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Grew fainter for their grief.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Let me return, I quickly said,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Close to the pearly gate;</div>
						<div class="line">My work is with these wretched ones,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">So wrecked and desolate.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">An angel smiled and gently said:</div>
						<div class="in2 line">This is the gate of life,</div>
						<div class="line">Wilt thou return to earth’s sad scenes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Its weariness and strife,</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To comfort hearts that sigh and break,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To dry the falling tear,</div>
						<div class="line">Wilt thou forego the music sweet</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Entrancing now thy ear?</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I must return, I firmly said,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The struggles in that sea</div>
						<div class="line">Shall not reach out beseeching hands</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In vain for help to me.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I turned to go; but as I turned</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The gloomy sea grew bright,</div>
						<div class="line">And from my heart there seemed to flow</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Ten thousand cords of light.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And sin-wrecked men, with eager hands,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Did grasp each golden cord;</div>
						<div class="line">And with my heart I drew them on</div>
						<div class="in2 line">To see my gracious Lord.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Again I stood beside the gate.</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My heart was glad and free;</div>
						<div class="line">For with me stood a rescued throng</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The Lord had given me.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="signing-the-pledge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Signing the Pledge</h2>
			<div class="c006 lg-container-b">
				<div class="linegroup">
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you see this cup—this tempting cup—</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Its sparkle and its glow?</div>
						<div class="line">I tell you this cup has brought to me</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A world of shame and woe.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you see that woman sad and wan?</div>
						<div class="in2 line">One day with joy and pride,</div>
						<div class="line">With orange blossoms in her hair,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I claimed her as my bride.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">And vowed that I would faithful prove</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Till death our lives should part;</div>
						<div class="line">I’ve drenched her soul with floods of grief,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And almost crushed her heart.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you see that gray-haired mother bend</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Beneath her weight of years?</div>
						<div class="line">I’ve filled that aged mother’s eyes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With many bitter tears.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Year after year for me she prays,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And tries her child to save;</div>
						<div class="line">I’ve almost brought her gray hairs down</div>
						<div class="in2 line">In sorrow to the grave.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you see that boy whose wistful eyes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Are gazing on my face?</div>
						<div class="line">I’ve overshadowed his young life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With sorrow and disgrace.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">He used to greet me with a smile,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">His heart was light and glad;</div>
						<div class="line">I’ve seen him tremble at my voice,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I’ve made that heart so sad.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Do you see this pledge I’ve signed to-night?</div>
						<div class="in2 line">My mother, wife, and boy</div>
						<div class="line">Shall read my purpose on that pledge</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And smile through tears of joy.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">To know this night, this very night,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I cast the wine-cup down,</div>
						<div class="line">And from the dust of a sinful life</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Lift up my manhood’s crown.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">The faded face of my young wife</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With roses yet shall bloom,</div>
						<div class="line">And joy shall light my mother’s eyes</div>
						<div class="in2 line">On the margin of the tomb.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">I have vowed to-night my only boy,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">With brow so fair and mild,</div>
						<div class="line">Shall not be taunted on the streets,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And called a drunkard’s child.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Never again shall that young face</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Whiten with grief and dread,</div>
						<div class="line">Because I’ve madly staggered home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">And sold for drink his bread.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">This strong right arm unnerved by rum</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Shall battle with my fate;</div>
						<div class="line">And peace and comfort crown the home</div>
						<div class="in2 line">By drink made desolate.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">Like a drowning man, tempest-tossed,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">Clings to a rocky ledge,</div>
						<div class="line">With trembling hands I’ve learned to grasp</div>
						<div class="in2 line">The gospel and the pledge.</div>
					</div>
					<div class="group">
						<div class="line">A captive bounding from my chain,</div>
						<div class="in2 line">I’ve rent each hateful band,</div>
						<div class="line">And by the help of grace divine</div>
						<div class="in2 line">A victor hope to stand.</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
